           Conventional aggregate-data meta-
analyses


                        IPD "collaboration" mega-
analyses
                                                     Comparative efficacy and acceptability of 21
antidepressant drugs for the acute treatment of adults with major depressive disorder: a systematic
review and network meta-analysis.




Body-mass index and all-cause mortality: individual-participant-data meta-analysis of 239
prospective studies in four continents.
                                               Alcohol consumption and site-specific cancer risk: a
comprehensive dose–response meta-analysis.




                    Association between administration of systemic corticosteroids and mortality
among critically ill patients with COVID-19: a meta-analysis.
                                                                                     Efficacy and
safety of more intensive lowering of LDL cholesterol: a meta-analysis of data from 170,000
participants in 26 randomised trials.




                                                Comparative efficacy and tolerability of 15
antipsychotic drugs in schizophrenia: a multiple-treatments meta-analysis.
                                                         Effect of daily aspirin on long-term risk of
death due to cancer: analysis of individual patient data from randomised trials.




                                                Tobacco smoking and cancer: a meta-analysis.




                                                                           Type and timing of
menopausal hormone therapy and breast cancer risk: individual participant meta-analysis of the
worldwide epidemiological evidence.
                                                   SGLT2 inhibitors for primary and secondary
prevention of cardiovascular and renal outcomes in type 2 diabetes: a systematic review and meta-
analysis of cardiovascular outcome trials.




                                             Red and processed meat and colorectal cancer
incidence: meta-analysis of prospective studies.




                                             Domains of physical activity and all-cause mortality:
systematic review and dose–response meta-analysis of cohort studies.
                            Long-term exposure to PM and all-cause and cause-specific mortality: a
systematic review and meta-analysis.




                                                                                                 µ




                                                         Meta-analysis of the relationship between
Helicobacter pylori seropositivity and gastric cancer.




                                                    Accruing evidence on benefits of adherence to the
Mediterranean diet on health: an updated systematic review and meta-analysis.
                                           Association between vitamin D supplementation and
mortality: systematic review and meta-analysis.




                           Association of sodium intake and major cardiovascular outcomes: a dose-
response meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies.




                                       Sugar- and artificially sweetened beverages consumption
linked to type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and all-cause mortality: a systematic review and
dose-response meta-analysis of prospective cohort studies.
diagnostic
frozen
