=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
CodeClinic: Evaluating Automation of Coding Skills
for Clinical Reasoning Agents
Timothy Ossowski1
Xinchu Liu1
Danyal Maqbool1
Vaibhav Dhanuka1
Sheng Zhang2
Hoifung Poon2
Majid Afshar1
Tyler Bradshaw1
Junjie Hu1
1University of Wisconsin–Madison
2Microsoft Research
Abstract
Clinical reasoning agents based on large language models (LLMs) aim to automate
tasks such as intensive care unit (ICU) monitoring and patient state tracking from
electronic health records (EHRs). Existing systems typically rely on manually
curated clinical tools or skills for concepts such as sepsis detection and organ failure
assessment. However, maintaining these tool libraries requires substantial expert
effort, while zero-shot querying or code generation often produces inefficient and
unreliable reasoning chains, especially under institution-specific clinical policies.
We introduce CodeClinic, a benchmark built on MIMIC-IV for evaluating whether
LLM agents can synthesize and compose reusable clinical skills instead of relying
on fixed toolboxes. The benchmark contains two complementary tasks: longitudinal
ICU surveillance and compositional information seeking. The longitudinal setting
simulates monitoring pa

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
CodeClinic: Evaluating Automation of Coding Skills
for Clinical Reasoning Agents
Timothy Ossowski1
Xinchu Liu1
Danyal Maqbool1
Vaibhav Dhanuka1
Sheng Zhang2
Hoifung Poon2
Majid Afshar1
Tyler Bradshaw1
Junjie Hu1
1University of Wisconsin–Madison
2Microsoft Research
Abstract
Clinical reasoning agents based on large language models (LLMs) aim to automate
tasks such as intensive care unit (ICU) monitoring and patient state tracking from
electronic health records (EHRs). Existing systems typically rely on manually
curated clinical tools or skills for concepts such as sepsis detection and organ failure
assessment. However, maintaining these tool libraries requires substantial expert
effort, while zero-shot querying or code generation often produces inefficient and
unreliable reasoning chains, especially under institution-specific clinical policies.
We introduce CodeClinic, a benchmark built on MIMIC-IV for evaluating whether
LLM agents can synthesize and compose reusable clinical skills instead of relying
on fixed toolboxes. The benchmark contains two complementary tasks: longitudinal
ICU surveillance and compositional information seeking. The longitudinal setting
simulates monitoring patient trajectories with structured decisions every four hours
across 25 findings and eight clinical families, while the compositional setting spans
63k instances across 259 tasks in nine domains and is stratified by compositional
dependency depth to evaluate increasingly complex multi-step reasoning. We
further propose an offline autoformalization pipeline that converts natural-language
clinical guidelines into reusable and verified Python skill libraries through iterative
LLM refinement. Compared with zero-shot code generation, the resulting libraries
improve consistency while reducing per-query token usage by up to 40%.1.
1
Introduction
Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated remarkable potential for clinical reasoning,
achieving expert-level performance on medical licensing examinations Singhal et al. [2023] and
showing strong capabilities across a diverse range of medical tasks Bedi et al. [2026], Wu et al. [2025],
Wang et al. [2025]. Recent works have extended these capabilities to agentic settings, where LLMs
interact with electronic health record (EHR) databases to answer clinically meaningful questions Liao
et al. [2026], Tang et al. [2024]. These agents typically generate code or queries to extract structured
information from EHR systems and reason over retrieved data to support clinical decisions.
A common approach is to equip agents with a user-designed toolbox of domain-specific functions
for recurring clinical computations. While toolboxes improve reliability, they do not scale well:
designing and maintaining them requires sustained expert effort and their coverage is inherently
limited by the author’s foresight. The alternative is a single-tool setup where the agent has only a
generic interface, such as a single query_db function, without hospital-specific helper functions.
However, relying only on this minimal single-tool setup can hurt both accuracy and cost, as the agent
must repeatedly issue complex queries and re-derive intermediate results.
Beyond the toolbox size tradeoff, many clinically meaningful questions are not well-defined without
additional context. Clinical concepts such as sepsis screening, organ failure scoring, and vasopressor
1Code to reproduce data and evaluation available at https://github.com/tossowski/CodeClinic
Preprint.
arXiv:2605.09675v1  [cs.AI]  10 May 2026

thresholds are not universal, with precise definitions varying across institutions and evolving with
clinical guidelines over time. An agent answering such questions without access to the relevant insti-
tutional policies and practice recommendations faces an underspecified problem, and any benchmark
grading its output against a single fixed ground truth will produce misleading accuracy estimates.
Thus, our benchmark aims to evaluate a central question: Given limited verification data, how well
can LLMs synthesize modular, composable libraries that operate over EHR data while dynamically
accounting for institutional definitions and policies? If successful, such models could remove the
expert-curation bottleneck by generating code that adapts to location-specific clinical and health
system policies.
We introduce CodeClinic, a benchmark built on MIMIC-IV Johnson et al. [2020] to evaluate this
capability through two complementary tasks. The first is longitudinal Intensive Care Unit (ICU)
surveillance, where an agent tracks patient state over time and issues structured monitoring decisions
at 4-hour checkpoints across ICU stays, covering 25 findings across eight clinical families. The task
simulates a doctor engaging in ICU patient monitoring, requiring persistent state tracking, handling
time-sensitive variables, and recomputing composite conditions (e.g., sepsis) over a 13-step horizon
without access to future information. The second is compositional information seeking, spanning 63
clinical concepts across nine domains and 63,000 queries, stratified by dependency depth to measure
multi-step reasoning.
As a baseline, we propose an offline autoformalization pipeline that converts natural-language clinical
guidelines into a reusable, verified Python function library via iterative LLM refinement. This library
is constructed once using limited supervision and reused across all queries, ensuring consistency and
reducing redundant computation.
Our contributions are as follows:
• CodeClinic (Benchmark): a longitudinal agentic automation task for bedside ICU monitoring,
paired with a compositional information seeking task which together surface the failure modes
of LLM agents relying on static toolboxes and zeroshot code generation.
• Benchmark Analysis (Findings): A systematic characterization of where and why current
LLMs fail on compositional and longitudinal clinical reasoning.
• Clinical Autoformalization (Baseline): An automated pipeline that transforms natural-language
clinical guidelines into a verified Python function library using limited verification data, demon-
strating a scalable alternative to user-designed toolboxes and serving as a strong baseline for
future work on CodeClinic.
2
Related Work
Benchmark
Code Gen.
Scale (>10K)
Agentic
Compositional
Longitudinal
EHRSQL Lee et al. [2022]
✓
✓
✗
✗
✗
EHRSHOT Wornow et al. [2023]
✗
✓
✗
✗
✗
EHRAgent Shi et al. [2024]
✓
✗
✓
✗
✗
AgentClinic Schmidgall et al. [2024]
✗
✗
✓
✗
✗
MedAgentGym Xu et al. [2025]
✓
✓
✓
✗
✗
MedAgentBench Jiang et al. [2025]
✗
✗
✓
✗
✗
EHRStruct Zhang et al. [2026]
✓
✗
✗
✗
✗
AgentEHR Liao et al. [2026]
✗
✓
✓
✗
✗
CodeClinic (Ours)
✓
✓
✓
✓
✓
Table 1: Comparison of EHR benchmarks relevant to clinical reasoning and agentic evaluation. Code
Gen.: requires generating executable code or SQL. Agentic: supports iterative agent loop with
execution feedback. Compositional: explicitly tests multi-hop reasoning over dependent clinical
concepts. Longitudinal: evaluates reasoning over patient state as it evolves over time.
EHR Databases and Benchmarks
Most prior EHR benchmarks build on the MIMIC family John-
son et al. [2020, 2018]. Text-to-SQL efforts (MIMICSQL Wang et al. [2020], EHRSQL Lee et al.
[2022], EHR-SeqSQL Bae et al. [2024]) and broader QA benchmarks (DrugEHRQA Bardhan et al.
[2022], EHRXQA Bae et al. [2023], EHRNoteQA Kim et al. [2024]) cover constrained query spaces
2

Figure 1: Illustration of the longitudinal ICU surveillance task in CodeClinic. The agent is prompted
every 4 hours throughout an ICU stay to assess the patient’s current condition, with strict visibility
constraints that limit it to data available up to the current checkpoint. At each checkpoint, the agent
either reasons or writes code to gather evidence and outputs a surveillance decision. A rolling history
of prior checkpoint decisions is carried forward across the stay via a summarization step.
over structured tables, multimodal records, or notes. EHRSHOT Wornow et al. [2023] adds point-in-
time foundation-model prediction, and code-generation benchmarks (EHRAgent Shi et al. [2024],
EHRStruct Zhang et al. [2026]) frame EHR reasoning as iterative code generation. All evaluate static,
individually posed queries with expert-curated toolboxes, and none jointly stratify multi-hop concept
dependencies and time-evolving clinical state. Table 1 summarizes the comparison; CodeClinic is
the only benchmark to combine compositional dependency-depth stratification across 63 clinical
concepts with longitudinal reasoning over full ICU trajectories.
LLM-Based Medical Agents
A growing body of work builds LLM agents that interact with EHR
data or simulated clinical environments Liao et al. [2026], Tang et al. [2024], Hager et al. [2024],
Bani-Harouni et al. [2025], Xu et al. [2025], Huang et al. [2025], Jiang et al. [2025], Schmidgall
et al. [2024], with broader medical evaluation suites such as MedHELM Bedi et al. [2026] measuring
static task performance. Two limitations recur: agents rely on hand-crafted tool environments whose
completeness bounds the evaluation, and re-executing full tool chains per query incurs significant
token overhead. Our work is orthogonal: instead of evaluating an agent inside a fixed tool environment,
we ask how well LLMs can generate that environment.
Autoformalization and Code-Augmented Reasoning
Autoformalization translates informal state-
ments into executable form, an approach originally developed for mathematics by translating theorems
into Lean or Isabelle Wu et al. [2022]. We adapt the idea to clinical guidelines, replacing proof check-
ers with clinical verification and targeting a Python function library. Clinical definitions vary across
institutions; although the natural-language guidelines we use draw on general consensus literature,
the autoformalization loop grounds them in institution-specific practice by verifying generated code
against labeled cases drawn from the target EHR system, fixing the ambiguity that makes zeroshot
evaluation unreliable. Our pipeline runs a ReACT-style Yao et al. [2023] code-as-reasoning loop Gao
et al. [2023], Chen et al. [2021] offline to produce a stable, reusable library, separating costly library
construction from inference and avoiding the repeated token expenditure of agents that re-derive the
same computations at query time.
3
Benchmark
CodeClinic is built around two complementary tasks over MIMIC-IV Johnson et al. [2023]: a
longitudinal ICU surveillance task (Figure 1) that stresses agentic state tracking across rolling
checkpoints, and a compositional information seeking task (Figure 3) that stresses multi-hop reasoning
over the dependency graph of clinical concepts.
3

0
4
8
12
16
20
24
28
32
36
40
44
48
Hours since ICU admission
off
on
State
State semantics across disease families at each checkpoint
Persistent episode
Cumulative max stage (any stage > 0)
Active interval
Recent measurement + TTL
Composite current state
Figure 2: Example state dynamics across an ICU trajectory for different medical concepts. CodeClinic
challenges models to interpret these changes in state dynamics across the patient timeline.
3.1
Longitudinal ICU Surveillance
The longitudinal task evaluates whether an agent can maintain clinically accurate state over time
instead of answering a single isolated question. We draw a cohort of roughly 46k ICU stays from
MIMIC-IV by keeping only stays with at least 48 hours of in-unit time, so that every trajectory is
long enough to expose meaningful clinical evolution. Each stay is sliced into a fixed sequence of
decision points spaced every four hours from admission through hour 48, giving 13 checkpoints per
stay. Patients are assigned to splits at the subject level, so no patient appears in both the train and
test set. From this cohort we release a held-out 2,000 stay benchmark, sampled with a stratification
which preserves the natural mix of ICU patients while preserving rarer high-acuity states.
Task Setup
At each checkpoint, the agent emits a structured decision: a set of suspected conditions,
a set of alerts that have crossed escalation thresholds, a single global action (continue monitoring
or escalate care), and a coarse priority level. This compact interface is intentionally agent-friendly:
it avoids committing to a fixed disease ontology while requiring the model to reason over the full
multi-organ state at every step, rather than focusing on a single salient issue. The task also exhibits
broad coverage. In the source cohort, over 90% of stays trigger at least one surveillance family within
the first day, and roughly two-thirds trigger three or more. The decision space spans both common
and rare ICU conditions. The released 2,000-stay benchmark preserves realistic co-occurrence across
families while ensuring sufficient support for clinically important but less frequent conditions such as
Acute Kidney Injury (AKI), septic shock, severe acidemia, and severe coagulopathy.
Label Generation
Internally, we maintain a registry of 25 canonical ICU surveillance findings,
organized into eight clinical families that together cover the dominant ICU monitoring concerns:
infection, sepsis, renal injury, respiratory support, hemodynamic support, neurologic deterioration,
metabolic derangement, and coagulopathy. For each finding we define a deterministic builder over
MIMIC-IV that consumes the patient’s data up to the current checkpoint and decides whether the
finding is currently active. The builder for each family encodes the appropriate clinical temporal
semantics (Figure 2). Monotonic syndromes such as infection or sepsis remain active once they have
been triggered within the trajectory. On the other hand, non-monotonic concepts such as ventilation
or vasoactive support are active only while the intervention is in progress. A model therefore cannot
solve the task by remembering a single binary label per disease. It must instead track which families
persist once triggered, which families decay when evidence becomes stale, and which families are
recomputed from multiple evolving components.
Agent Loop
At each of the 13 checkpoints the agent sees the current hour, a compact summary of
its own decisions and observations from previous checkpoints, and access to a toolbox for grounding
its predictions in the database. The benchmark supports several agent-facing configurations: an agent
can be asked to decide each checkpoint independently or with rolling history. Tools can expose
curated MIMIC-IV concept queries, the autoformalized function library produced by our pipeline
(Appendix F), or only the raw EHR tables, allowing us to separately measure the contribution of
longitudinal context and of higher-level clinical tooling. In all cases the agent must retrieve the
evidence it deems relevant, commit to a structured decision for the current checkpoint, and write a
short summary that will be visible at the next step.
3.2
MIMIC-IV Compositional Information Seeking
We complement the longitudinal task with a clinical question answering benchmark grounded in
the MIMIC-IV database. All questions are derived from tables in the MIMIC-IV derived schema,
4

Figure 3: Left: Example sepsis-related question with its corresponding dependency graph. An-
swering the query requires composing intermediate clinical concepts (e.g., Sequential Organ Failure
Assessment (SOFA) score used in organ dysfunction definitions for sepsis, suspected infection) that
must be recomputed over time. Right: Hierarchical taxonomy of MIMIC clinical concepts, organized
by supercategory and associated sub-concepts.
a curated collection of structured representations of the raw ICU data produced by community-
validated SQL transformations applied to the original MIMIC-IV tables Johnson et al. [2021]. The
benchmark spans 63 clinical concepts covering nine physiological and pharmacological domains: co-
morbidity scoring, patient demographics, first-day asses

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
I
Compute Resources
All inference experiments were run on a 8xB200 Node. Inference was served with vLLM. Approxi-
mate runtimes per experimental condition are as follows:
• Autoformalization (per concept): 20 GPU-hours on average for a Qwen3.5-27B model
run with efficient parallelization via topological ordering of concepts.
• GRPO Finetuning: 144 GPU-hours total on a subset of the training split (50 questions per
concept) for a total of 3150 questions. 4xH200 GPUs were used for training.
• zeroshot inference evaluation (56,700 queries, one model): 114 GPU-hours when using
Qwen3.5-27B and parallel processing of 4 concepts at a time.
Total compute across all reported experiments (all models, all baselines) is estimated at ∼1000-2000
GPU-hours. No substantial additional compute was used for preliminary or failed experiments beyond
the reported runs.
J
Sample Inference Trajectory
We present a representative inference trajectory drawn from the MIMIC-IV Demo dataset (publicly
available, no credentialing required).2 The trajectory uses Qwen/Qwen3.5-27B-Instruct as the
inference model, consistent with the backbone used in the main experiments (Section 5). No pre-
computed derived tables are available and no guideline text is pre-injected into the prompt — the
agent must discover, retrieve, and apply clinical knowledge entirely through the guideline tools.
Table 7: Summary of the sample inference trajectory.
Field
Value
Concept
SOFA — CNS component (GCS-based)
Question
“What is this patient’s CNS (GCS-based) SOFA
component score during their first 24 hours in the ICU?”
Patient
subject_id=10007928, hadm_id=20338077, stay_id=35128235
Ground truth
0 (GCS = 15, full consciousness)
Predicted
0 ✓
LLM turns
7
SQL queries
2
Derived tables
None
Guideline pre-injected
No
2MIMIC-IV Demo is available at https://physionet.org/content/mimic-iv-demo/ under the PhysioNet Open
Data Commons License.
22

Trajectory Example: CNS SOFA Component Score (MIMIC-IV Demo)
Patient Query:
“What is this patient’s CNS (GCS-based) SOFA component score during their first 24
hours in the ICU?”
Label / Predicted: 0 / 0 ✓
Agent Trajectory
[Search]:
search_guidelines(
"What is this patient’s CNS (GCS-based)
SOFA score during their first 24 hours in the ICU?")
[Information]: [‘first_day_sofa_guideline’,
‘saps-ii_guideline’,
‘coma_altered_consciousness_icu_guideline’, ...]
Semantic retrieval ranks first_day_sofa_guideline first over 351 section-level embeddings. Full
clinical question used as query — not a short keyword.
[Read]:
get_guideline("first_day_sofa_guideline")
[Information]: 500-char preview + section menu (not the full ∼6,000-token document):
– Definition
– Diagnostic Criteria
– Scoring System
– Time Windows
– Severity Staging
– Operational Notes
[Read Section]:
get_guideline_section("first_day_sofa", "Scoring System")
[Information]: Exact GCS→score mapping retrieved (∼500 tokens):
GCS total
15
13–14
10–12
6–9
<6
SOFA CNS score
0
1
2
3
4
[Read Section]:
get_guideline_section("first_day_sofa", "Time Windows")
[Information]: “Use the lowest GCS documented within the 24-hour window (worst-value selection).”
[Query DB]:
SELECT intime FROM icustays
WHERE stay_id = ’35128235’
⇒
2129-04-06 00:25:00
[Query DB]:
SELECT itemid, valuenum FROM chartevents
WHERE stay_id = ’35128235’
AND itemid IN (220739, 223900, 223901)
AND charttime WITHIN first 24h
[Information]: Eye = 4, Verbal = 5, Motor = 6 at all 4 timepoints. Total GCS = 15 (consistent throughout
window).
[Think]: From scoring table (Turn 3): GCS = 15 →SOFA CNS = 0. From time window rule (Turn 4):
minimum GCS used — all readings are 15, so minimum = 15.
[Answer]: SOFA CNS score = 0.
The agent retrieved only the two sections it needed (Scoring System
and Time Windows) rather than loading the full guideline document.
Figure 15: Sample inference trajectory on the MIMIC-IV Demo dataset. No guideline text is
pre-injected; no derived tables are used. Model: Qwen/Qwen3.5-27B-Instruct.
23

