=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
ExpGraph: Model-Agnostic Experience Learning with
Graph-Structured Memory for LLM Agents
Tao Feng1, Chongrui Ye1, Tianyang Luo1, Jingjun Xu1, Xueqiang Xu1, Haozhen Zhang2
Zhigang Hua3, Yan Xie3, Shuang Yang3, Ge Liu1, Jiaxuan You1
1University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
2Nanyang Technological University
3Meta Monetization AI
Abstract
Large language model (LLM) agents have shown strong capabilities in reason-
ing, tool use, and multi-step environment interaction, yet they often solve each
task from scratch and fail to systematically reuse successful strategies or failure
lessons accumulated from prior interactions. A common solution is to fine-tune
the executor on collected experience, but this becomes increasingly inflexible as
LLMs evolve rapidly: when stronger or more suitable executors emerge, executor-
specific training may need to be repeated. To address this limitation, we propose
ExpGraph, a model-agnostic experience learning framework that enables frozen
and replaceable LLM executors to improve through external experience reuse
without modifying their parameters. ExpGraph summarizes historical trajectories
into reusable skills and failure lessons, organizes them as nodes i

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
ExpGraph: Model-Agnostic Experience Learning with
Graph-Structured Memory for LLM Agents
Tao Feng1, Chongrui Ye1, Tianyang Luo1, Jingjun Xu1, Xueqiang Xu1, Haozhen Zhang2
Zhigang Hua3, Yan Xie3, Shuang Yang3, Ge Liu1, Jiaxuan You1
1University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign
2Nanyang Technological University
3Meta Monetization AI
Abstract
Large language model (LLM) agents have shown strong capabilities in reason-
ing, tool use, and multi-step environment interaction, yet they often solve each
task from scratch and fail to systematically reuse successful strategies or failure
lessons accumulated from prior interactions. A common solution is to fine-tune
the executor on collected experience, but this becomes increasingly inflexible as
LLMs evolve rapidly: when stronger or more suitable executors emerge, executor-
specific training may need to be repeated. To address this limitation, we propose
ExpGraph, a model-agnostic experience learning framework that enables frozen
and replaceable LLM executors to improve through external experience reuse
without modifying their parameters. ExpGraph summarizes historical trajectories
into reusable skills and failure lessons, organizes them as nodes in a self-evolving
experience graph, and connects related experiences to support retrieval beyond flat
nearest-neighbor matching. For each task, a lightweight retrieval copilot adaptively
controls graph diffusion and utility-aware ranking, retrieving experiences that are
both task-relevant and historically useful for the frozen executor. The copilot
is optimized with reinforcement learning using utility-grounded feedback that
compares executor performance with and without retrieved experiences, while the
experience graph is updated online from downstream task outcomes. We evaluate
ExpGraph on ExpSuite, covering single-turn question answering, mathematical
reasoning, code generation, and multi-step agentic environments including ALF-
World and AppWorld. Across static tasks, ExpGraph improves over the strongest
baseline by 12.2% with the smaller executor and 4.7% with the larger executor.
In agentic environments, the gains further increase to 21.4% and 12.7%, respec-
tively, while reducing average interaction steps by 12.7% and 21.6% compared
with the most efficient baseline. Ablation studies show that graph-structured
experience, utility-aware ranking, and adaptive retrieval jointly enable effective
experience reuse across diverse tasks and executor models, providing a practi-
cal and executor-agnostic path for LLM agents to learn from experience without
retraining the underlying executor. Our code for ExpGraph will be released at
https://github.com/ulab-uiuc/ExpGraph.
1
Introduction
LLM agents have demonstrated strong capabilities in complex tasks requiring reasoning, tool use,
and multi-step environment interaction [52, 41]. A key bottleneck, however, is that most agents still
operate as one-shot executors: each task is solved largely from scratch, and successful strategies,
failure lessons, and transferable insights accumulated from prior interactions are discarded rather than
systematically reused. A natural remedy is to fine-tune the executor on its own experience, but this
solution becomes increasingly inflexible as LLM capabilities evolve rapidly. Whenever a stronger
Preprint.
arXiv:2605.30712v1  [cs.CL]  29 May 2026

Table 1: Comparison with representative experience learning methods. ExpGraph is the only
framework that jointly supports graph-structured experience, graph diffusion, utility-aware ranking,
and adaptive retrieval for effective experience reuse.
Method
Graph-Structured Experience
Graph Diffusion
Utility-Aware Ranking
Adaptive Retrieval
ExpeL [56]
✗
✗
✗
✗
Mem0 [4]
✓
✗
✗
✗
MemRL [55]
✗
✗
✓
✗
S3 [19]
✗
✗
✗
✓
ExpGraph
✓
✓
✓
✓
or more suitable executor is released, executor-specific training may need to be repeated, making
experience learning tightly coupled to a particular model instance. This limitation is especially
problematic because many capable LLMs are either too large, expensive to update, or inaccessible
for parameter-level modification. These observations motivate a more flexible research question: how
can an LLM agent learn from accumulated experience while keeping the executor itself frozen and
replaceable?
Existing experience learning methods as summarized in Table 1, provide partial solutions to this
problem, including textual experience distillation [56], memory organization [4], utility-aware
experience selection [55], and adaptive retrieval or search policies [19]. However, these capabilities
are usually developed in isolation, and reusable experience is often treated as isolated records or
locally matched candidates. Building a unified experience learning framework is therefore non-trivial.
First, surface relevance is not the same as experience utility. An experience that appears similar
to the current task may provide little downstream benefit, while a useful experience may encode a
transferable strategy, shared sub-goal, or failure pattern that is not among the nearest neighbors of the
task embedding. Second, useful experience is often relational rather than isolated. Past trajectories
may be connected through common strategies, environmental constraints, or recurring mistakes,
so treating them as independent text entries misses important relations among experiences. Third,
retrieval must adapt to both the task and the executor. Some tasks benefit from broad exploration over
related experience neighborhoods, while others require focused selection of high-utility experiences.
Meanwhile, different executors vary in reasoning, planning, and instruction-following ability, so an
experience learning system should improve the executor through external context without assuming
that the executor itself can be retrained.
To address these challenges, we propose ExpGraph, a model-agnostic experience learning framework
that improves frozen LLM executors through a self-evolving relational memory of reusable experience
and a trainable retrieval copilot. Rather than modifying the executor, ExpGraph treats it as a
replaceable task solver and learns how to provide useful experience through the input context. This
design decouples experience learning from executor training: when stronger or different LLMs
become available, the same external experience system can be reused or adapted without retraining
the executor itself. Specifically, ExpGraph summarizes historical trajectories into compact experience
units, including skills distilled from successful trajectories and lessons distilled from failures. These
units are organized as nodes in an experience graph, where edges connect semantically or strategically
related experiences. The graph allows retrieval to move beyond flat nearest-neighbor matching by
expanding from initially matched experiences to related ones that may share transferable strategies,
sub-goals, or failure patterns with the current task. On top of this relational memory, ExpGraph uses a
lightweight retrieval copilot to predict task-adaptive retrieval controls, determining both how broadly
retrieval explores the graph and how strongly final ranking balances semantic relevance against
historical utility. To learn which experiences are actually useful, ExpGraph uses utility-grounded
feedback from downstream task performance. The executor is evaluated both with and without
retrieved experiences, allowing the retrieval system to estimate whether selected experiences truly
improve the executor rather than merely matching the task semantically. This feedback optimizes the
retrieval copilot and updates experience-node utility statistics, gradually favoring experiences that
are not only relevant but empirically beneficial. Throughout this process, the executor LLM is never
updated, enabling ExpGraph to support different frozen executors across model scales, capabilities,
and deployment settings.
We evaluate ExpGraph on ExpSuite, covering both single-turn static tasks (question answering,
mathematical reasoning, and code generation) and multi-step agentic environments (ALFWorld and
AppWorld). Across static tasks, ExpGraph improves over the strongest baseline by 12.2% with the
2

smaller executor and 4.7% with the larger executor. The advantage becomes more pronounced in
agentic environments, where ExpGraph improves the weighted average score over the strongest
baseline by 21.4% and 12.7% with the smaller and larger executors, respectively. Meanwhile,
ExpGraph also improves decision efficiency, reducing average interaction steps by 12.7% and
21.6% compared with the most efficient competing baseline. These results suggest that modeling
relations among experiences and learning utility-aware adaptive retrieval are especially valuable when
tasks require long-horizon decision-making and when the executor must improve through external
experience rather than parameter updates. Ablation studies further confirm that experience relations,
graph diffusion, utility-aware ranking, and adaptive retrieval copilot training each contribute to the
overall gains.
2
Preliminaries
2.1
Model-Agnostic LLM Agents
We consider an LLM agent that solves a task x ∈X by producing an output y, which can be an
action, answer, or code sequence, and receives a task score s = S(x, y) ∈R from the environment
or evaluator. The agent is built around an executor LLM πexec, which maps the task input to
an output, i.e., y = πexec(x). We adopt a model-agnostic view of the executor: the experience
learning mechanism should not depend on the internal architecture, parameters, gradients, logits,
or training procedure of πexec. Instead, πexec is treated as a frozen and replaceable task solver,
which can be closed-source, costly to update, specialized for a domain, or newly released. The
improvement mechanism interacts with the executor only through its input-output behavior and
task-level feedback. This setting decouples experience learning from executor training, allowing the
same external experience system to improve different frozen executors through input context rather
than parameter updates.
2.2
Experience-Augmented Learning
To improve the executor through its input, we equip the agent with an external experience system
M that stores reusable knowledge distilled from historical trajectories. A trajectory is denoted as
τ = (x, ξ, y, s), where x is the task input, ξ denotes the intermediate execution process, y is the
final response or action sequence, and s ∈R is the task score. Specifically, ξ corresponds to the
agent interaction trace in agentic environments, and to the intermediate thinking process in question-
answering or reasoning tasks. Each trajectory is summarized into a compact natural-language
experience unit e = Summarize(τ) and stored in M. At execution time, the agent retrieves a subset
of experiences E ⊆M and injects them into the executor’s input context, yielding y = πexec(x, E).
The task score s = S(x, y) then depends indirectly on the choice of E.
Since πexec is fixed, the learnable component is the retrieval policy πret, which selects E from M
given the current task. The learning objective is to maximize expected task performance over a task
distribution D:
max
πret Ex∼D[ S(x, πexec(x, E)) ] ,
E ∼πret(· | x, M).
(1)
This formulation decouples execution from experience learning: πexec solves the task, while πret
decides which experiences should be provided as context.
3
ExpGraph: Utility-Guided Experience Graph Retrieval
3.1
Overview
ExpGraph is a model-agnostic experience learning framework for LLM agents. Given a task x,
ExpGraph improves a frozen executor LLM πexec by retrieving useful external experiences without
modifying the executor. The key idea is to decouple execution from experience learning: rather than
updating the executor, a retrieval copilot learns which experiences to provide as context, making the
framework compatible with arbitrary executor instances. As shown in Figure 1, ExpGraph operates
as a closed loop over three components. First, historical trajectories are compressed into experience
units and organized as a graph-structured experience system. Second, a retrieval copilot predicts
task-adaptive controls to navigate the graph via semantic seeding, graph diffusion, and utility-aware
ranking. Third, downstream feedback updates both the copilot and graph statistics, biasing future
retrieval toward experiences that are empirically useful rather than merely semantically related.
3

Task 1
Task 2
Task t
Task T
……
……
𝒙𝟏
𝒙𝟐
𝒙𝒕
𝒙𝑻
Retrieval Policy 𝜋𝑟𝑒𝑡
𝑡
𝑅𝑡: diffusion depth
Task 𝒙𝒕
Frozen Executor 𝜋𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐 
Retrieval on  Experience Graph 𝐺𝑡 
(a) Semantic Seeding
(c) Utility-Aware 
Ranking
Top-M by Cosine
Similarity
Seed set 𝑆0 
𝒔𝒄𝒐𝒓𝒆𝒗|𝒙
= 𝟏−𝜶
∙෢
𝒔𝒊𝒎𝒗, 𝒙𝒕+ ෢
𝜸𝒃𝒗
…
𝑬𝒕= {𝒗𝟏, … , 𝒗𝒕}
Top-K 
Ranked 
by Score
Task 𝒙t
With Memory: 𝑆𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ
𝑡
 
Without Memory: 𝑆𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑡
𝑡
 
Downstream Performance
Reward Computation
𝒓𝒕= 𝑆𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ
𝑡
− 𝑆𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑡
𝑡
+ 𝜼𝑆𝑤𝑖𝑡ℎ
𝑡
Proximal Policy
Optimization
New task arrives
Embedding ℎ𝑥𝑡 
𝑊𝑡: sim-utility trade-off
𝑊𝑡
𝑅𝑡
Co-evolution: Update Both Retrieval Copilot and Experience Graph
Update Retrieval Copilot
Use 𝒓𝒕 to optimize retrieval 
strategy via RL
𝜋𝑟𝑒𝑡
𝑡
𝜋𝑟𝑒𝑡
𝑡+1
Learns to adapt:
• When to diffuse far
• When to trust utility more
Update Experience Graph
Update visited nodes, add new experience, and maintain the graph
(1) Update 
Retrieved Nodes
(2) Add New 
Experience
(3) Insert & 
Maintain the graph
Graph Evolve
For each 𝑣∈𝐸𝑡
• 𝑛𝑣←𝑛𝑣+ 1
• 𝑢𝑣←1 −𝛽𝑢𝑣+
𝛽𝑟𝑡
𝑢𝑣: utility
𝑛𝑣: count
trajectory 𝑟𝑡
′
LLM(𝑟𝑡
′)→𝑒𝑡
′
Create node 𝑣𝑡
′ 
∙Connect 𝑣𝑡
′ to 
top-K neighbors 
with sim ≥𝜃 
∙Prune low-
quality nodes if 
over capacity 
Update
𝐺𝑡
𝐺𝑡+1
Figure 1: Overview of ExpGraph. ExpGraph enables a frozen and replaceable executor LLM to
improve through a self-evolving experience graph and a trainable retrieval copilot. For each incoming
task xt, the task is embedded as hxt and passed to the retrieval copilot πt
ret, which predicts two
adaptive controls: Rt for graph diffusion depth and Wt for the similarity–utility trade-off. Retrieval
is performed on the current experience graph Gt through three steps: (a) Semantic Seeding, which
selects a seed set S0 by cosine similarity; (b) Graph Diffusion, which expands from the seeds using
personalized PageRank controlled by ρ; and (c) Utility-Aware Ranking, which combines semantic
relevance and utility confidence to select the top-K experiences Et. The frozen executor πexec is then
evaluated with and without retrieved experiences, producing st
with and st
without. Their difference,
together with the absolute task score, forms the reward rt = (st
with −st
without) + ηst
with. This reward
drives a co-evolution process: it updates the retrieval copilot via PPO and updates the experience
graph by refining visited-node utilities, adding new experience nodes, connecting them to similar
neighbors, and pruning low-quality nodes when necessary. Only the retrieval copilot and experience
graph evolve; the executor LLM remains frozen throughout.
3.2
Experience Graph Construction
Trajectory-to-experience conversion. Let a historical trajectory be denoted as τ = (x, ξ, y, s),
where x is the task input, ξ denotes the intermediate execution process, y is the final response or
action sequence, and s ∈R is the task score returned by the environment or evaluator. Specifically, ξ
corresponds to the agent interaction trace in agentic environments, and to the intermediate thinking
process in question-answering or reasoning tasks. ExpGraph converts each trajectory into a compact
natural-language experience unit:
e = Summarize(τ).
(2)
The summarizer does not aim to preserve the full trajectory. Instead, it extracts reusable knowledge
from the trajectory. High-scoring trajectories are distilled into skills, such as successful reasoning
patterns, planning strategies, or task-specific heuristics. Low-scoring trajectories are distilled into
lessons, such as failure modes, invalid actions, or c

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Table 100: ExpGraph case study in QA.
Question: Which property best explains why a metal spoon feels colder than a wooden spoon at the same room
temperature?
Options: (A) higher density, (B) higher thermal conductivity, (C) lower melting point, (D) stronger magnetism.
Ground Truth: (B) higher thermal conductivity.
Retrieved Experience Graph Neighborhood:
Seed experience: When two objects have the same temperature, perceived coldness often depends on how quickly heat
leaves the skin, not on the object’s actual temperature.
Connected experience: Metals transfer heat faster than wood or plastic; this makes metal feel colder because it draws
heat from the hand more rapidly.
Utility signal: Similar heat-transfer explanations previously improved science QA accuracy, while density-based distractors
were often misleading.
The retrieved experiences separate the relevant physical mechanism from surface distractors. Since the spoon and wooden
spoon are at the same room temperature, the answer must explain the sensation of coldness. The useful experience
indicates that heat-transfer rate is the key factor, and the connected experience identifies metals as high-conductivity
materials. Therefore, the metal spoon feels colder because it conducts heat away from the skin faster.
Prediction: (B) higher thermal conductivity. ✓
Table 101: ExpGraph case study in Math.
Question: A store sells notebooks for $3 each and pens for $2 each. Alice buys 4 more pens than notebooks and spends
$38 in total. How many notebooks does she buy?
Ground Truth: 6 notebooks.
Retrieved Experience Graph Neighborhood:
Seed experience: For two-item purchase problems, define the smaller quantity as x and express the larger quantity using
the stated difference.
Connected experience: Always verify the solution by substituting the quantity back into the total-cost equation.
Connected failure lesson: Do not answer immediately after solving the equation; check whether the result is an integer
and satisfies all constraints.
Let x be the number of notebooks. Then the number of pens is x + 4. The total cost equation is 3x + 2(x + 4) = 38.
Thus 3x + 2x + 8 = 38, so 5x = 30 and x = 6. Verification: notebooks cost 6 × 3 = 18, pens cost 10 × 2 = 20, and
the total is 38.
Prediction: 6 notebooks. ✓
62

Table 102: ExpGraph case study in Code Generation.
Question: Write a function count_vowels(s) that returns the number of vowels in a string. Treat both uppercase and
lowercase vowels as valid.
Tests: assert count_vowels("Apple") == 2, assert count_vowels("WHY") == 0.
Ground Truth: Count characters whose lowercase form is in "aeiou".
Retrieved Experience Graph Neighborhood:
Seed experience: For character-counting tasks, normalize the input before applying membership tests.
Connected experience: Use a set for constant-time membership when checking whether characters belong to a small
category.
Connected failure lesson: Do not forget uppercase cases when the problem explicitly says the match should be case-
insensitive.
The graph retrieves both the algorithmic pattern and the common failure mode. The implementation should lowercase the
string before counting vowels, and a set is sufficient for checking membership. This directly handles "Apple" because
"A" becomes "a", and it returns zero for "WHY" because none of the characters are vowels after lowercasing.
“‘python
def count_vowels(s):
vowels = set("aeiou")
return sum(1 for ch in s.lower() if ch in vowels)
“‘
Prediction: Passes the tests. ✓
Table 103: ExpGraph case study in ALFWorld.
Task: Put a clean mug in the cabinet.
Ground Truth Plan: Find mug →take mug →clean mug at sink →go to cabinet →put mug in cabinet.
Retrieved Experience Graph Neighborhood:
Seed experience: For clean-and-place tasks, first secure the target object, then clean it at a sinkbasin before moving to the
destination receptacle.
Connected experience: After cleaning, avoid re-checking unrelated rooms; go directly to the target receptacle if it has
already been observed.
Connected failure lesson: A common failure is putting the object away before cleaning it, which completes the wrong
state and causes task failure.
The retrieved experiences provide both a high-level plan and a constraint to avoid a known failure. The agent first locates
and takes the mug, moves to the sinkbasin, cleans the mug, and then navigates directly to the cabinet. Because the graph
also retrieves a failure lesson about premature placement, the agent avoids putting the mug into the cabinet before cleaning
it.
Outcome: Success with fewer redundant exploration steps.
Table 104: ExpGraph case study in AppWorld.
Task: Find the user’s unread email from Bob about a dinner reservation and create a calendar event for the reservation
time.
Ground Truth Plan: Search unread emails from Bob →extract restaurant, date, and time →create calendar event with
the extracted details.
Retrieved Experience Graph Neighborhood:
Seed experience: For email-to-calendar tasks, first filter by unread status and sender, then parse the message body for
time, date, title, and location.
Connected experience: Calendar creation tasks often require all structured fields, including title, start time, end time, and
location, not just the time.
Connected failure lesson: Missing optional-looking fields such as restaurant name or location can still fail strict AppWorld
validation.
The retrieved experiences emphasize both the API workflow and the strict validation requirement. The agent searches
unread emails from Bob, identifies the reservation email, extracts the restaurant name, date, and time, and creates a
calendar event with a title such as Dinner Reservation, the correct start and end time, and the restaurant as the location.
The failure lesson prevents the agent from creating an underspecified event.
Outcome: Success under strict validation.
63

