=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
CaveAgent: Transforming LLMs into Stateful
Runtime Operators
Maohao Ran∗1,2, Zhenglin Wan∗1,3, Cooper Lin4, Yanting Zhang1, Hongyu Xin1, Hongwei Fan7, Yibo Xu1, Beier
Luo4, Yaxin Zhou5, Wangbo Zhao3, Lijie Yang8, Lang Feng6, Fuchao Yang6, Jingxuan Wu9, Yiqiao Huang10,
Chendong Ma2, Dailing Jiang2, Jianbo Deng1, Sirui Han1, Yang You3, Bo An6, Yike Guo1, Jun Song1,2†
1HKUST
2HKBU
3NUS
4HKU
5CMU
6NTU, Singapore
7Imperial College London
8Princeton
9UNC, Chapel Hill
10Harvard
Abstract:
LLM-based agents are increasingly capable of complex task execution, yet current agentic systems
remain constrained by text-centric paradigms that struggle with long-horizon tasks due to fragile multi-turn
dependencies and context drift. We present CaveAgent, a framework that shifts LLM tool use from “LLM-as-Text-
Generator” to “LLM-as-Runtime-Operator.” CaveAgent introduces a dual-stream architecture: a semantic stream
for lightweight reasoning and a runtime stream backed by a persistent Python environment for stateful execution.
Rather than treating the LLM’s text context as the primary workspace, CaveAgent elevates the persistent runtime as
the central locus. Beyond leveraging code generation to resolv

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
CaveAgent: Transforming LLMs into Stateful
Runtime Operators
Maohao Ran∗1,2, Zhenglin Wan∗1,3, Cooper Lin4, Yanting Zhang1, Hongyu Xin1, Hongwei Fan7, Yibo Xu1, Beier
Luo4, Yaxin Zhou5, Wangbo Zhao3, Lijie Yang8, Lang Feng6, Fuchao Yang6, Jingxuan Wu9, Yiqiao Huang10,
Chendong Ma2, Dailing Jiang2, Jianbo Deng1, Sirui Han1, Yang You3, Bo An6, Yike Guo1, Jun Song1,2†
1HKUST
2HKBU
3NUS
4HKU
5CMU
6NTU, Singapore
7Imperial College London
8Princeton
9UNC, Chapel Hill
10Harvard
Abstract:
LLM-based agents are increasingly capable of complex task execution, yet current agentic systems
remain constrained by text-centric paradigms that struggle with long-horizon tasks due to fragile multi-turn
dependencies and context drift. We present CaveAgent, a framework that shifts LLM tool use from “LLM-as-Text-
Generator” to “LLM-as-Runtime-Operator.” CaveAgent introduces a dual-stream architecture: a semantic stream
for lightweight reasoning and a runtime stream backed by a persistent Python environment for stateful execution.
Rather than treating the LLM’s text context as the primary workspace, CaveAgent elevates the persistent runtime as
the central locus. Beyond leveraging code generation to resolve interdependent sub-tasks (e.g., loops, conditionals)
in a single step, CaveAgent introduces Stateful Runtime Management: it injects, manipulates, and retrieves
complex Python objects (e.g., DataFrames, database connections) that persist across turns, unlike existing code-
based approaches that remain text-bound. CaveAgent further provides a runtime-integrated skill management
system that extends the Agent Skills open standard, enabling ecosystem interoperability through executable skill
injections. This persistence mechanism serves as a high-fidelity external memory that reduces context drift in
multi-turn interactions and preserves processed data for downstream applications with less information loss.
Evaluations on Tau2-bench and BFCL across six SOTA LLMs demonstrate consistent improvements: +10.5%
success rate on retail tasks, 28.4% reduction in total token consumption, and 59% token reduction on data-
intensive tasks. The accessible runtime state further provides programmatically verifiable feedback, enabling
automated evaluation and reward signal generation without human annotation and establishing a structural
foundation for future research in Reinforcement Learning with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR).
Date: Feb 19, 2026 (v.2)
Code: https://github.com/acodercat/cave-agent
Main Contact: Zhenglin Wan (vanzl@u.nus.edu), Jun Song (junsong@hkbu.edu.hk)
Figure 1: Town Simulation: a toy example for Stateful Runtime-Mediated Multi-Agent Collaboration.
∗Joint first author & Equal Contribution.
† Corresponding to junsong@hkbu.edu.hk. Work conducted at the Hong Kong Generative AI Research and Development Center (HKGAI), led by HKUST.
arXiv:2601.01569v3  [cs.AI]  19 Feb 2026

Technical Report
1. Introduction
Large Language Models (LLMs) have demonstrated strong knowledge acquisition and reasoning capabilities across diverse
natural language processing tasks. Building on these capabilities, tool-integrated reasoning (TIR) enables LLM agents to
interact with external tools and APIs in a multi-turn manner1 (Lu et al., 2023, Shen et al., 2023, Patil et al., 2024, Qu et al.,
2025), expanding their information access and solution space. This has extended LLM agents to various domains, including
scientific discovery (Boiko et al., 2023, Bran et al., 2023), mathematical problem-solving (Gao et al., 2023, Chen et al.,
2022), Web GUI navigation (Zhou et al., 2023, Yao et al., 2022a), and robotics (Driess et al., 2023, Zitkovich et al., 2023).
Despite this progress, the conventional protocol for tool use requires LLMs to conform to predefined JSON schemas and
generate structured JSON objects containing precise tool names and arguments (Qin et al., 2023, Achiam et al., 2023). For
example, to retrieve stock data, the model must synthesize a JSON string like {"tool":
"get_stock", "params":
{"ticker":
"AAPL", "date":
"today"}}, requiring exact adherence to syntax and field constraints. This imposes
three architectural limitations: 1) Rigid Control Flow: each turn executes a single tool call (or parallel batch) and serializes
output back to context, introducing latency for tasks requiring sequential orchestration (Wu et al., 2024, Shen et al., 2023);
2) Statelessness: each call is an isolated transaction with no persistent state across turns, so intermediate results must be
serialized back into text, causing token overhead for complex data structures and cascading error propagation (Qiao et al.,
2023, Kim et al., 2023); and 3) Limited Composability: JSON schemas express flat function signatures and cannot natively
represent loops, conditionals, or variable dependencies, forcing multi-step logic into error-prone multi-turn dialogue (Kim
et al., 2023, Wang et al., 2024).
While recent works attempt to address these issues with code-based tool use (Wang et al., 2024, Yang et al., 2024), they
predominantly adopt a process-oriented paradigm where the runtime state remains internalized and text-bound. This
creates a “textualization bottleneck”: variables are accessible to external systems only through text output, requiring
serialization into text strings (e.g., printing a DataFrame) to communicate with the user (Wang et al., 2024, Yao et al.,
2022b). This prevents the direct input and output of structured, manipulatable objects, making it inefficient or impossible to
handle complex non-textual data (e.g., large datasets, videos) (Qiao et al., 2023) and interact with downstream tasks. To
address these limitations:
We aim to build a system that utilizes Python’s "everything is an object” philosophy to enable full Object-Oriented function
calling and interaction, delegating context engineering to a persistent runtime and allowing the direct injection and retrieval
of high-fidelity objects without serialization loss, thereby fully leveraging the strong code-generation capability of LLMs, and
enabling modular distribution of executable tool capabilities through a portable Agent-Skill standard.
We present CaveAgent, an open-source framework that introduces the concept of Stateful Runtime Management for
LLM agents, shifting code-based tool use from “process-oriented function calling” to persistent “object-oriented state
manipulation.” CaveAgent operates on a dual-stream architecture with two distinct streams: a semantic stream for
reasoning and a runtime stream for state management and code execution. This represents a fundamental inversion of the
conventional paradigm: whereas existing agents treat the LLM’s semantic context as the primary workspace with external
tools as auxiliary, CaveAgent elevates the persistent runtime as the primary locus of computation and state, with the semantic
stream serving as a lightweight orchestrator that generates code to manipulate it.
By injecting complex data structures (e.g., graphs, DataFrames) directly into the runtime as persistent objects, CaveAgent
achieves a form of context engineering: the agent manipulates high-fidelity data via concise variable references, decoupling
storage from the limited context window. Any intermediate result (e.g., DataFrames, planning trees, or key metadata) can
be stored in persistent variables that the agent actively retrieves for later use or downstream applications (code as action,
state as memory). This reduces progressive context degradation in multi-turn interactions (Ouyang et al., 2022, Luo et al.,
2025), enables context compression, and provides error-free recall through the runtime serving as an external memory.
The persistent environment also enables few-step resolution of complex logical dependencies by using code to interact
with multiple interdependent tools, allowing the agent to compose workflows (e.g., data filtering followed by analysis) in a
few turns rather than through error-prone multi-round function calling (Wang et al., 2023a, Qin et al., 2023). The runtime’s
transparency makes agent behavior fully verifiable, supporting checks on both intermediate programmatic states and final
output objects of any data type, thereby enabling fine-grained reward signals for Reinforcement Learning.
Finally, CaveAgent supports artifact handoff without information loss by returning native Python objects rather than text
representations, enabling direct use in downstream tasks such as UI rendering, visualization, and structured validation. The
runtime can be serialized and reloaded, preserving the agent’s complete state across sessions. This transforms the LLM from
1In this paper, we use tool use and function calling interchangeably.
2

Technical Report
Figure 2: Key Advantages of CaveAgent
an isolated text generator into a stateful, interoperable computational component within broader software ecosystems.
The function-calling paradigm in CaveAgent also extends beyond single-agent capabilities to enable Runtime-Mediated
Multi-Agent Coordination, as shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2. Unlike conventional frameworks where agents coordinate
via lossy text message passing (Li et al., 2023, Park et al., 2023), CaveAgent enables agents to interact through direct state
manipulation. A supervisor agent can programmatically inject variables into a sub-agent’s runtime to alter its environment
or task context without ambiguous natural language instructions. Multiple agents can also operate on a unified shared
runtime, achieving implicit synchronization: when one agent modifies a shared object (e.g., updating a global “weather”
entity in a town simulation), the change is immediately visible to all peers through direct reference. This transforms
multi-agent collaboration from serialized dialogue into precise, verifiable state flow (details in Appendix E). We summarize
our contributions as follows:
• We introduce CaveAgent, a tool-use framework built on Stateful Runtime Management. CaveAgent shifts the
paradigm from process-oriented function calling to persistent, object-oriented state management. It achieves context
compression and context-grounded memory recall by delegating context engineering to a persistent runtime, elimi-
nating the token overhead and precision loss of textual serialization while enabling few-step resolution of logically
interdependent tasks. CaveAgent also introduces runtime-integrated skill management that extends the Agent Skills
open standard: because the architecture treats tools as first-class Python objects, skills can deliver executable artifacts
(functions, variables, and type definitions) directly into the runtime upon activation, unifying tool registration and
skill distribution into a single mechanism.
• The framework’s programmatic inspectability is a structural property of the architecture: runtime state is determinis-
tically accessible at any point, providing automated evaluation and fine-grained reward signals for Reinforcement
Learning with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR) without requiring subjective human annotation.
• We evaluate CaveAgent on standard benchmarks (e.g., Tau2-Bench) and provide case studies across various domains in-
cluding geospatial analysis (Appendix G.3) and AutoML multi-agent coordination (Appendix E.4). We also demonstrate
the potential to extend the paradigm to Stateful Runtime-Mediated Multi-Agent Coordination with qualitative
results, opening directions for future research.
3

Technical Report
Figure 3: Framework Overview
2. CaveAgent: Stateful Runtime Management
2.1. Core Methodologies
In this section, we present the design of CaveAgent. As illustrated in Figure 3, CaveAgent adopts a dual-stream architecture,
maintaining two synchronized streams throughout the interaction lifecycle: a Semantic Stream for lightweight reasoning,
and a Runtime Stream for stateful execution, observation, and context engineering. Unlike conventional agents where the
LLM’s text context serves as the primary workspace and external tools are called as auxiliary services, CaveAgent inverts this
relationship: the persistent runtime becomes the central locus of data storage, computation, and state management, while
the semantic stream is reduced to a lightweight controller that generates code to operate on the runtime.
We model the agent’s task as a sequential decision process over a horizon T. At each turn t ∈[1,T], the agent receives a query
or observation xt and must produce a response yt. Unlike traditional formulations where the entire state is re-serialized into
xt, we introduce a latent runtime state St (we call it "in-runtime context"). The system evolution is thus defined by:
ht = LLM(xt,ht−1)
(Semantic Stream: Context History)
(1)
St = Exec(ct,St−1)
(Runtime Stream: Persistent Environment)
(2)
where ht represents the semantic history (“in-prompt context”) and ct is the executable code generated by the agent. The
key design choice is the decoupling of ht and St: the semantic stream tracks intent and lightweight reasoning for code
generation, while the runtime stream maintains all data and execution state via the code generated by the semantic stream.
The Runtime Stream:
The execution kernel of the runtime stream is a persistent Python kernel (an IPython interactive
shell). We conceptualize each interaction turn t not as an isolated API call, but as a cell execution in a virtual Jupyter
notebook.
• Persistent Namespace: The state St comprises the global namespace Nt, containing all variables, functions, and
imported modules. When the agent executes code ct (e.g., x = 5), the modification to Nt persists to Nt+1. This allows
subsequent turns to reference x directly without requiring the LLM to memorize or re-output its value.
• Stateful Injection: Tools are not only described in text; they are injected into N0 as live Python objects. This allows
the agent to interact with stateful objects via calling tools that modify the object’s internal state across turns.
The runtime stream can also assign values to new variables during interaction and inject them into the persistent namespace
(in-runtime context). This enables large context in complex tasks, such as large DataFrames, graphs, or other data structures,
to be managed entirely by the Python runtime stream as stateful variables. Their values are preserved natively in persistent
4

Technical Report
runtime memory without requiring repeated serialization into text, eliminating the risk of hallucination from lossy textual
representations.
Code as Action, State as Memory
The agent stores key information (such as reasoning chains and intermediate data
analysis results) as persistent variables in the runtime context, retaining only a lightweight description and reference in its
in-prompt context. The runtime thus functions as an external memory, allowing the agent to retrieve stored data as native
Python objects, achieving context compression and reducing progressive context degradation in multi-turn interactions. This
property addresses persistent challenges in agentic tool use, specifically memory, dynamic decision-making, and long-horizon
reasoning (Patil et al.).
A natural question arises: what distinguishes storing intermediate results in runtime variables from persisting them to files?
We identify three key differences. First, type fidelity: runtime variables preserve native Python object types with full method
interfaces (e.g., a DataFrame retains .groupby(), .merge() operations), whereas file-based storage requires serialization
that may lose type information or fail entirely for non-serializable objects such as database connections, trained models with
custom layers, or open file handles. Second, access latency: runtime variables enable zero-cost retrieval within the same
memory space, while file I/O introduces disk latency and requires explicit read/write operations in generated code. Third,
lifecycle management: runtime variables are automatically scoped to the agent session and garbage-collected app

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Technical Report
Figure 16: Demonstration of CaveAgent in a smart-home example: the Semantic Stream interacts with the Runtime Stream by
generating code that manipulates stateful objects (variables) in the persistent runtime.
30

Technical Report
Figure 17: Geospatial Analysis: a user draws two regions on an interactive map. CaveAgent injects the GeoJSON polygons as Python
variables and resolves the entire spatial query in a single turn with lossless data flow.
31

