=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
Skill-Pro: Learning Reusable Skills from Experience via Non-Parametric PPO
for LLM Agents
Qirui Mi 1 Zhijian Ma 2 3 Mengyue Yang 4 Haoxuan Li 5 Yisen Wang 5 Haifeng Zhang 2 Jun Wang 6
Abstract
LLM-driven agents excel at sequential decision-
making but often rely on on-the-fly reasoning,
re-deriving solutions even in recurring scenarios.
This insufficient experience reuse leads to compu-
tational redundancy and instability. To bridge this
gap, we propose Skill-Pro, a framework enabling
agents to autonomously learn reusable procedural
skills from interaction experiences without pa-
rameter updates. By formalizing a Skill-MDP,
Skill-Pro transforms passive episodic narratives
into executable Skills defined by activation, exe-
cution, and termination conditions to ensure exe-
cutability. To achieve reliable reusability with-
out capability degradation, we introduce Non-
Parametric PPO, which leverages semantic gra-
dients for high-quality candidate generation and a
PPO Gate for robust Skill verification. Through
score-based maintenance, Skill-Pro sustains com-
pact, high-quality procedural memory. Experi-
mental results across in-domain, cross-task, and
cross-agent scenarios demonstrate

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
Skill-Pro: Learning Reusable Skills from Experience via Non-Parametric PPO
for LLM Agents
Qirui Mi 1 Zhijian Ma 2 3 Mengyue Yang 4 Haoxuan Li 5 Yisen Wang 5 Haifeng Zhang 2 Jun Wang 6
Abstract
LLM-driven agents excel at sequential decision-
making but often rely on on-the-fly reasoning,
re-deriving solutions even in recurring scenarios.
This insufficient experience reuse leads to compu-
tational redundancy and instability. To bridge this
gap, we propose Skill-Pro, a framework enabling
agents to autonomously learn reusable procedural
skills from interaction experiences without pa-
rameter updates. By formalizing a Skill-MDP,
Skill-Pro transforms passive episodic narratives
into executable Skills defined by activation, exe-
cution, and termination conditions to ensure exe-
cutability. To achieve reliable reusability with-
out capability degradation, we introduce Non-
Parametric PPO, which leverages semantic gra-
dients for high-quality candidate generation and a
PPO Gate for robust Skill verification. Through
score-based maintenance, Skill-Pro sustains com-
pact, high-quality procedural memory. Experi-
mental results across in-domain, cross-task, and
cross-agent scenarios demonstrate that Skill-Pro
achieves superior reuse rates and significant gains
with extreme memory compression. Visualized
evolutionary trajectories and Skill distributions
further reveal how Skill-Pro transparently accu-
mulates, refines, and reuses procedural knowledge
to facilitate long-term autonomy.
1. Introduction
Large Language Model (LLM)-driven agents have shown
strong performance in complex sequential decision-
1Key Laboratory of Interdisciplinary Research of Computation
and Economics, Shanghai University of Finance and Economics
2Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences 3School of
Artificial Intelligence, Chinese Academy of Sciences 4University
of Bristol 5Peking University 6University College London. Corre-
spondence to: Jun Wang <jun.wang@ucl.ac.uk>, Haifeng Zhang
<haifeng.zhang@ia.ac.cn>.
Proceedings of the 43 rd International Conference on Machine
Learning, Seoul, South Korea. PMLR 306, 2026. Copyright 2026
by the author(s).
Figure 1. Episodic memory versus procedural memory in LLM-
driven agents. Episodic memory retrieves past interactions for ref-
erence, requiring inference-heavy reasoning at decision time. Pro-
cedural memory encodes reusable procedural Skills that directly
map situations to actions, enabling efficient experience reuse.
making (Park et al., 2023; Shinn et al., 2023). However,
this performance is often driven by on-the-fly reasoning,
where agents interpret prompts, observations, and feedback
in real-time to generate solutions (Wei et al., 2022; Yao et al.,
2022; 2023). Even in recurring situations, they typically
redo the full reasoning process from scratch, treating each
interaction as an unseen problem. This insufficient experi-
ence reuse results in substantial computational redundancy
and increases the risk of error accumulation in long-horizon
scenarios, eventually leading to lower reliability in execu-
tion (Liu et al., 2024; Press et al., 2023).
To incorporate interaction experience, existing work broadly
falls into two paradigms. Parametric methods, such as Re-
inforcement Learning (RL), attempt to encode experience
into model parameters (Sutton et al., 1998; Ouyang et al.,
2022). While effective in specific domains, these approaches
face high training costs, risks of catastrophic forgetting, and
a narrowing of general-purpose capabilities (Kirkpatrick
et al., 2017). Alternatively, non-parametric methods im-
prove behavior at inference time without updating the base
LLM, most commonly via external memory (Hu et al.,
2025). These agents store diverse forms of experience in
external memory, including past trajectories (Lewis et al.,
2020; Rajesh et al., 2025), distilled reflections (Xu et al.,
2025; Zhao et al., 2024), and structured graphs (Zhang et al.,
2025a; Xia et al., 2025) or workflows (Wang et al., 2024). At
decision time, they retrieve stored experiences to condition
the LLM’s reasoning and improve performance, typically
1
arXiv:2602.01869v3  [cs.AI]  28 May 2026

Skill-Pro: Learning Reusable Skills from Experience via Non-Parametric PPO for LLM Agents
without updating the base LLM. However, despite their ef-
fectiveness, these methods predominantly operate as forms
of episodic memory (Cohen & Squire, 1980), storing and
retrieving past experiences as “history books” to be con-
sulted (Fig. 1). Even with large memory, the agent still has
to spend its limited context window interpreting retrieved
cases and re-deriving solutions, effectively returning to the
inference-heavy loop. Inspired by procedural memory in
human cognition, an implicit system that directly maps sit-
uations to action patterns (Squire, 2004); once acquired, it
enables the automatic execution of Skills without conscious
re-derivation (Anderson, 1982). While frameworks like
Claude Agent Skills (Anthropic, 2025) reuse manually en-
coded procedures, this work investigates how LLM agents
can autonomously learn reusable procedural Skills from
interaction experience for future decision-making.
However, establishing reusable procedural memory faces
three fundamental obstacles: C1: Executability. Interac-
tion experience is often stored as passive episodic narratives
describing past events rather than active decision procedures
that can be directly instantiated at runtime. C2: Reusability.
The challenge lies in ensuring that stored procedures can
be reliably invoked and reused in future tasks while provid-
ing a consistent performance gain. C3: Non-Parametric
Optimization. The difficulty lies in Learning Reusable
Skills through non-parametric methods while preserving the
agent’s general-purpose capabilities.
To address these challenges, we propose Skill-Pro, a frame-
work designed to learn reusable procedural Skills from
interaction experience without parameter updates. First,
Skill-Pro formalizes procedural units as Skills consisting of
Activation Conditions, Execution Procedures, and Termina-
tion Conditions. By constructing a Skill-MDP, the agent
selects and reuses these executable procedures (Skills) for
decision-making to ensure executability (C1). To achieve re-
liable reusability (C2) through non-parametric optimization
(C3), we introduce Non-Parametric PPO. This mechanism
leverages semantic gradients extracted from batch trajecto-
ries to propose refined Skill candidates, while a PPO-style
Trust-Region Verification (PPO Gate) ensures the selec-
tion of high-quality Skills for inclusion in the procedural
memory. Furthermore, an online scoring mechanism filters
out redundant or low-quality procedures. Experimental re-
sults demonstrate that Skill-Pro achieves superior reuse
rates, significant performance gains, and extreme mem-
ory compression compared to baselines across in-domain,
cross-task, and cross-agent scenarios (Table 1, 2). Ablation
studies confirm that Semantic Gradients and the PPO Gate
are indispensable for generating and verifying high-quality
skills, while online scoring preserves long-term evolution-
ary gains (Table 3, Fig. 3). Finally, visualized evolutionary
trajectories (Fig. 4) and Skill distribution (Fig. 5) reveal
how Skill-Pro’s procedural memory is transparently con-
structed and reused to facilitate long-term autonomy. Our
core contributions are three-fold:
• Procedural Skill Formalization: We introduce the Skill-
MDP, transitioning LLM agents from episodic narratives
to reusable procedural Skills.
• Non-Parametric PPO: We propose a parameter-free op-
timization mechanism leveraging Semantic Gradients, a
PPO Gate, and score-based maintenance to evolve high-
quality skills without weight updates.
• Superior reuse rates and performance gain across di-
verse scenarios with extreme memory compression.1
2. Related Work
(A comprehensive literature review is shown in Appendix A.)
Learning from Interaction. LLM agents improve decision-
making via parametric fine-tuning, such as reinforcement
learning (Ouyang et al., 2022; Rafailov et al., 2023; Guo
et al., 2025), or non-parametric adaptation. While paramet-
ric updates yield strong performance, they often incur high
computational costs and risk catastrophic forgetting or over-
specialization (Ziegler et al., 2020; Shi et al., 2025a; Luo
et al., 2025), driving the shift toward memory-augmented
agents as a more efficient, non-parametric alternative.
Memory-Augmented LLM Agents. Existing frameworks
primarily differ in experience representation: (i) Episodic
Trajectories: Storing raw trajectories for case-based rea-
soning (Park et al., 2023); (ii) Abstracted Knowledge: Dis-
tilling experience into summaries (Yang et al., 2025), high-
level principles (Wu et al., 2025; Agrawal et al., 2025; Cai
et al., 2025), or failure-derived insights (Zhao et al., 2024);
(iii) Structured & Compressed Memory: Organizing ex-
perience into graphs (Zhang et al., 2025a; Jimenez Gutierrez
et al., 2024; Rezazadeh et al., 2024; Xia et al., 2025), dense
vectors (Das et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2025b), or dynamic
knowledge snippets (Asai et al., 2024; Shi et al., 2025b;
Zhou et al., 2025b); (iv) Workflow: Maintaining explicit
task-completion paths (Wang et al., 2024). Skill-centric and
procedural frameworks (Wang et al., 2023; Tan et al., 2024;
Zhu et al., 2023; Sumers et al., 2023; Han et al., 2025; Fang
et al., 2025) leverage executable logic, yet robust reusabil-
ity remains non-trivial. To bridge the gap between storage
and reusability, we propose Skill-Pro to learn procedural
memory for efficient, autonomous long-term execution.
3. Reusable Procedural Units: Skills
In this section, we introduce Skills as reusable procedural
units integrated into the decision-making process of LLM
agents. We define a Skill as a temporally extended proce-
dural units specifying: (1) when it should be activated, (2)
how the agent should execute a sequence of actions, and (3)
1Code is available at:
https://github.com/Miracle1207/Skill-Pro
2

Skill-Pro: Learning Reusable Skills from Experience via Non-Parametric PPO for LLM Agents
Skill-augmented Markov Decision Process
State
Frozen LLM
𝜋!"#
Environment
Next state
Reward
Action
𝑎$, … , 𝑎$%∆$
Trajectories 𝒯
Buffer
Non-Parametric PPO
①Semantic Gradient
②PPO Trust-Region Verification
New Skill 𝜔’
(Re-run)
Old Skill 𝜔
Trajectories
𝒯!
Advantage $𝐴
clipped
Trajectories
𝒯!
Hindsight attribution:
𝑔" = (𝑔"
# , 𝑔"
$ , 𝑔"
% )
Semantic Optimization:
𝜔’ = 𝜔⨁𝑔&
Batch-level aggregation:
𝑔& = 𝐴𝑔𝑔({𝑔"}"'(
! )
Per-Trajectory Gradient
{𝒈𝟏, 𝒈𝟐, … , 𝒈𝑩}
Stable Gradient 𝒈𝝎
Skill candidate 𝝎’
Select
Sample
Trajectories
State
Skill 𝜔
Selected Skill 𝝎for ∆𝒕
Activation 𝜤𝝎: When …
Procedure 𝝅𝝎:
Step 1: do action A;
Step 2: do action B…
Termination 𝜷𝝎: When … stop
Procedural Skills
Skill evolutionary Map
Skill
𝜔
Online
score
Skill 𝜔(
Skill 𝜔-
Pruning
Skill 𝜑
Skill 𝜔.
③Online Score Maintenance
Update
𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒(𝜔) = 1
!
𝑔𝑎𝑖𝑛(𝜔;𝜏)/1
!
𝑓𝑟𝑒𝑞(𝜔;𝜏)
New
Refinement
Lowest
Duplicate
Learn
𝜋𝑎𝑠, 𝜔
𝐿/012 𝜔’
Better?
Verification
Best of N
Selection
PPO
Gate
𝜋𝑎𝑠, 𝜔’
𝑠$, … , 𝑠$%∆$
Figure 2. Overview of the Skill-Pro framework. (Left) Skill-MDP: The agent selects a Skill ω based on state st and activation
conditions. A frozen LLM executes ω into primitive actions at over multiple steps until termination. Post-episode trajectories T are
stored in a buffer. (Middle) Procedural Skills: Skills are dynamically managed via refinement, generation, and score-based pruning to
maintain pool quality. (Right) Non-Parametric PPO: Evolution proceeds in two stages: 1⃝Semantic Gradient: Derives and aggregates
per-trajectory gradients through hindsight attribution to generate candidates ω′.
2⃝PPO Gate: Filters candidates via trust-region
verification, admitting only the best-performing valid candidate into the Skill pool.
when control should return.
Unlike human procedural memory (Cohen & Squire, 1980;
Squire, 2004), which is largely implicit, our Skills are cur-
rently represented in an explicit, readable form, similar to
systems such as Claude Agent Skills (Anthropic, 2025).
While explicit in representation, Skills can be hidden at the
system level during execution; directions toward implicit
procedural representations are discussed in Appendix F.1.
3.1. Problem Formulation
We formulate the LLM agent’s decision-making process as a
Skill-augmented Markov Decision Process (Skill-MDP).
The Skill-MDP extends the classical Markov Decision Pro-
cess (MDP) by introducing a dynamic Skill pool Ω, which
explicitly represents the agent’s procedural memory and or-
ganizes decision making around the selection and execution
of reusable procedural Skills. Formally, a Skill-MDP is
defined as a tuple
MΩ= (S, A, Ω, P, R, γ),
where S denotes the semantic state space and A denotes the
primitive action space, both represented in natural language;
Ω= {ω(1), . . . , ω(K)} denotes the pool of available Skills,
which serves as the agent’s procedural memory, with K
Skills stored; P and R are the state transition and reward
functions, respectively, and γ ∈(0, 1] is the discount factor.
In a Skill-MDP, at each time step t, the agent first selects
a Skill via a Skill-selection policy µ, conditioned on the
current state st and the current Skill pool Ω:
ωt ∼µ(ω | st, Ω).
Conditioned on the active Skill ωt, the agent then generates
a primitive action using an LLM-driven action policy:
at ∼πLLM(a | st, ωt).
(1)
Accordingly, the hierarchical policy over Skills and primi-
tive actions factorizes as
πΩ(ωt, at | st) = µ(ωt | st, Ω) πLLM(at | st, ωt),
(2)
After executing at, the agent receives reward rt and tran-
sitions to next state st+1 until the horizon T is reached.
While Eq. (2) shares a similar factorization with memory-
augmented agents (e.g., Memento (Zhou et al., 2025a)),
which typically optimize the retrieval policy µ, our work
focuses on autonomously evolving the Skill pool Ω.
Optimization Objective. We aim to optimize the agent’s
decision-making performance under the hierarchical policy
πΩ, measured by the expected cumulative discounted return:
max
πΩ
E
" T
X
t=0
γtrt
#
.
(3)
In this paper, we focus on learning the Skill pool Ω, while
keeping the LLM policy and the Skill-selection mechanism
fixed. We next specify the internal structure of a Skill, the
basic reusable procedural unit in the Skill-MDP.
3.2. Skill Structure
We define a Skill ω ∈Ωas a reusable, natural-language
procedural unit that specifies when to activate, how to act
while active, and when to return control. This enables Skills
to be reused across similar states. Formally, a Skill is defined
as the tuple
ω = ⟨Iω, πω, βω⟩,
representing its activation condition, execution procedure,
and termination condition.
(1) Activation Condition Iω. The activation condition spec-
ifies when a Skill is invoked. Rather than a learned classifier
in latent space, Iω is a natural-language description of ob-
servable context patterns where the Skill applies. During
3

Skill-Pro: Learning Reusable Skills from Experience via Non-Parametric PPO for LLM Agents
decision making, the Skill-selection policy µ uses Iω to
select Skills based on the current state or interaction history.
(2) Execution Procedure πω. The execution procedure
πω specifies an ordered sequence of actions to be executed
while the Skill ω is active, expressed as in natural language.
At each time step t, the LLM generates a primitive action
conditioned on the current state st and πω (Eq. (1)), enabling
the agent to reuse procedural steps without re-deriving de-
liberative reasoning from scratch.
(3) Termination Condition βω. The termination condition
specifies when the execution of a Skill should end. Like
the activation condition, βω is expressed in natural language
and evaluated on the current state:
βω(st) = 1 iff st satisfies βω.
If βω(st) = 1, the Skill ω terminates and µ selects the next
Skill; otherwise, it remains active.
Example. We illustrate with an example Skill. A detailed
case showing how thi

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Skill-Pro: Learning Reusable Skills from Experience via Non-Parametric PPO for LLM Agents
Response Requirements (JSON Format):
{
"skill_name": "Concise_Name",
"initiation": "IF... AND...",
"policy": ["Step 1...", "Step 2...", "Step 3..."],
"termination": "Stop IF..."
}
Prompt Template for Trajectory Summarization (Ablation Study)
You are a trajectory compression assistant. Your goal is to provide a factual, neutral summary of an agent’s execution trace
without adding any diagnostic or prescriptive insights.
Inputs:
• Trajectory: {trajectory} (The raw sequence of states and actions)
• Reward: {reward} (The final outcome of the execution)
Task Instructions: Write a concise, factual summary of observable events based on the provided trajectory and reward.
Operational Rules:
1. Facts Only: Describe only what was observed in the execution.
2. No Diagnosis: Do not provide reasoning or explanations for failures or successes.
3. No Advice: Do not offer any suggestions, prescriptions, or improvements for the skill.
Response Requirements (JSON Format): Return ONLY one JSON object wrapped in triple backticks:
‘‘‘json
{
"summary": "..."
}
Prompt Template for Skill Evolution without Semantic Gradient (Ablation Study)
You are an Evolution Operator. Your goal is to refine a skill based on a collection of neutral trajectory summaries, without the aid
of causal diagnosis or semantic gradients.
Inputs:
• Parent Skill (ω): {old_skill_definition}
• Trajectory Summaries: A list of neutral, factual summaries of past execution traces and their corresponding rewards.
Task Instructions: Refine the parent skill based on the provided evidence. Focus on improving the success rate while preserving
the core intent of the original skill.
Operational Rules:
1. Evidence-based: Use only observable facts from the summaries to justify changes.
2. Strict Constraints: Use only state-checkable terms in the conditions; avoid vague language like ”successfully submitted”
unless explicit feedback is present.
Response Requirements (JSON Format): Output EXACTLY ONE skill in strict JSON format. No explanations or extra text
allowed.
{
"skill_name": "Concise_Name",
"initiation": "IF ... AND ... (fully checkable conditions)",
"policy": [
"S1: ...",
"S2: ...",
"S3: ..."
],
"termination": "Stop IF ... (fully checkable conditions)"
}
21

Skill-Pro: Learning Reusable Skills from Experience via Non-Parametric PPO for LLM Agents
F. Discussion and Limitations
F.1. From Explicit Skills to Implicit Procedural Memory
Our current instantiation of Skills differs from human procedural memory (Cohen & Squire, 1980; Squire, 2004) in that
the latter is largely implicit and not directly observable, whereas our Skills are represented in an explicit, readable form.
This explicitness is shared by existing agent skill systems, such as Claude Agent Skills (Anthropic, 2025), and facilitates
learning, inspection, and system-level control. Importantly, explicit representation does not imply exposure to end users: in
our framework, Skills can be concealed at the system level during execution and operate as internal procedural abstractions.
A natural direction for future work is to move beyond explicit representations toward genuinely implicit or directly executable
Skills. One possible approach is to progressively compress frequently reused Skills into more compact forms, such as
executable code modules, parameterized procedures, or latent control policies that can be invoked without natural-language
mediation. Another direction is to decouple Skill execution from language generation entirely, allowing mature Skills to be
executed directly while retaining explicit representations for learning, evaluation, and debugging. Through such mechanisms,
explicit Skills may serve as an intermediate stage in skill acquisition, with long-term evolution yielding more implicit
procedural representations that more closely resemble human procedural memory.
F.2. API Compatibility of the PPO Gate
The PPO Gate in Section 4.2 requires only output-token log-probabilities. Open-weight models are fully compatible, and
several closed-source API providers already expose this capability, including OpenAI (logprobs / top logprobs),
Gemini (responseLogprobs / logprobs), and Cohere (logprobs). The remaining compatibility constraint
therefore stems from API exposure choices of specific providers, not from NP-PPO itself.
For providers that do not surface log-probabilities, a promising direction is to replace the importance ratio with purely prompt-
based verification mechanisms, such as LLM-as-judge scoring or self-consistency filtering, to achieve full compatibility
with completely opaque APIs.
22

