=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
LEGO: An LLM Skill-Based Front-End Design
Generation Platform
Jincheng Lou1, Ruohan Xu2, Jiecheng Ma3, Runzhe Tao1, Xinyu Qu1, and Yibo Lin1,4,5,*
1School of IC, Peking University, 2School of EECS, Peking University,
3School of Microelectronics, Xidian University, 4Institute of EDA, Peking University,
5Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for IC
Email: jinchenglou@stu.pku.edu.cn *Corresponding author: yibolin@pku.edu.cn
Abstract—Existing LLM based EDA agents are often isolated
task-specific systems. This leads to repeated engineering effort
and limited reuse of successful design and debugging strategies.
We present LEGO, a unified skill-based platform for front-end
design generation. It decomposes the digital front-end flow into
six independent steps and represents every agent capability as
a standardized composable circuit skill within a plug-and-play
architecture. To build this skill library, we survey more than 100
papers, select 11 representative open-source projects, and extract
42 executable circuit skills within a six-step finite state machine
formulation. Circuit Skill Builder automates skill extraction
with linear scalability. Agent Skill RAG achieves submillisec-
ond retrie

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
LEGO: An LLM Skill-Based Front-End Design
Generation Platform
Jincheng Lou1, Ruohan Xu2, Jiecheng Ma3, Runzhe Tao1, Xinyu Qu1, and Yibo Lin1,4,5,*
1School of IC, Peking University, 2School of EECS, Peking University,
3School of Microelectronics, Xidian University, 4Institute of EDA, Peking University,
5Beijing Advanced Innovation Center for IC
Email: jinchenglou@stu.pku.edu.cn *Corresponding author: yibolin@pku.edu.cn
Abstract—Existing LLM based EDA agents are often isolated
task-specific systems. This leads to repeated engineering effort
and limited reuse of successful design and debugging strategies.
We present LEGO, a unified skill-based platform for front-end
design generation. It decomposes the digital front-end flow into
six independent steps and represents every agent capability as
a standardized composable circuit skill within a plug-and-play
architecture. To build this skill library, we survey more than 100
papers, select 11 representative open-source projects, and extract
42 executable circuit skills within a six-step finite state machine
formulation. Circuit Skill Builder automates skill extraction
with linear scalability. Agent Skill RAG achieves submillisec-
ond retrieval without relying on embedding models. Empirical
evaluation on a hard subset of 41 VerilogEval v2 problems that
gpt-5.2-codex fails to solve under extra-high (xhigh) reasoning
effort shows that individual circuit skills constructed within
LEGO raise Pass@1 from 0.000 to 0.805. This is an 80.5%
gain over the baseline. Cross project skill compositions also
reach 0.805 Pass@1. They outperform hierarchy-verilog
by 14.6% and VerilogCoder by 2.5%. They also match MAGE.
These results show that modular skill composition supports
both effective and flexible RTL design automation. The LEGO
platform and all circuit skills are publicly available at GitHub
(https://github.com/loujc/LEGO-An-LLM-Skill-Based-Front-E
nd-Design-Generation-Platform).
Index Terms—LLM Agents, Agent Skills, RTL Generation,
Front-End Design Flow, VerilogEval
I. INTRODUCTION
Automating the digital front-end design flow is a cen-
tral challenge in AI assisted chip design. The flow covers
specification refinement, RTL coding, testbench generation,
simulation, and iterative debugging. Generated RTL code
must satisfy strict syntax rules, timing constraints, and signal-
level functional correctness. This breadth and the stringent
requirements at each step make end-to-end automation dif-
ficult and expensive. Large language models and code agents
have shown strong potential in this domain. Prior work has
made progress in benchmark construction [1]–[5], agent-based
design workflows [6]–[10], and domain-specific LLM train-
ing [11]–[16]. Most existing systems are isolated solutions.
They bind algorithmic ideas to project-specific toolchains. This
limits cross-project reuse and forces repeated implementation
of common infrastructure.
To address this fragmentation, we propose LEGO, a unified
skill-based front-end design generation platform. Fine-tuning
approaches and multi-agent systems often reimplement infras-
Fig. 1. LEGO System Overview
tructure for partial flows and incur high LLM API cost. LEGO
instead decomposes the workflow into six-steps and supports
plug-and-play composition across steps. As shown in Fig. 1,
LEGO runs on top of code agent tools. It can therefore use
vendor provided coding plans. These plans are more affordable
and accessible than raw LLM API calls. Circuit Skill Builder
converts open-source projects into LEGO compliant circuit
skills within the open code agent ecosystem. Agent Skill RAG
accumulates design and debugging experience for efficient
reuse.
Our contributions are listed below.
• LEGO is the first open skill-based platform for digital
front-end design. It decomposes the workflow into six
independent steps and supports plug-and-play composi-
tion. This enables cross-project reuse without rebuilding
infrastructure. The platform and extracted circuit skills
are publicly released in a unified GitHub repository.
• Executable skill library. We curate a library of 42
executable circuit skills extracted from 11 representative
open-source projects and organized into 24 functional
groups. Circuit Skill Builder automates skill extraction.
Agent Skill RAG supports lightweight experience accu-
mulation and achieves submillisecond retrieval.
• Strong empirical gains. We validate the framework on a
arXiv:2604.23355v2  [cs.AI]  18 May 2026

hard subset of 41 VerilogEval v2 problems from tasks that
gpt-5.2-codex fails to solve. The results show an 80.5%
Pass@1 improvement over the baseline. Composed skills
outperform hierarchy-verilog by 14.6% and VerilogCoder
by 2.5%. They also match the RTL generation SOTA
method MAGE.
II. PRELIMINARY
A. LLM and Multi-Agent Paradigms in RTL Generation
Compared with software languages, Verilog and other HDLs
encode hardware hierarchy, timing behavior, and signal depen-
dencies in a tightly coupled form. RTL generation therefore re-
quires coordinated reasoning across specification understand-
ing, code synthesis, simulation feedback, and iterative correc-
tion, making the task difficult for a single static prompting
strategy.
Current approaches to LLM assisted RTL generation follow
two main directions. The first direction trains domain-specific
LLMs on hardware description data [11]–[16]. However, the
scale of publicly available RTL datasets is orders of magni-
tude smaller than that of software code. The structural gap
between HDL and general-purpose programming languages
further limits transfer. These factors make domain-specific
models expensive to train and their performance still lags be-
hind expectations. The second direction leverages multi-agent
systems [6]–[10]. These systems benefit directly from the
rapid improvement of general-purpose LLMs and have become
the mainstream approach. Multi-agent systems decompose
the workflow into specialized roles with step-specific tools
and prompts. This decomposition reduces context interference
across heterogeneous subtasks such as specification analysis,
RTL coding, testbench generation, and debug. Our framework
follows this collaborative principle and further standardizes
each executable capability as a reusable skill unit.
B. Code Agents and the Abstraction of Skills
A code agent is an autonomous programming system that
can invoke external tools and react to execution feedback.
Representative code agents include Codex CLI [17], Claude
Code [18], and OpenCode [19]. Beyond token generation,
these agents execute shell commands, interpret compiler and
simulator outputs, and perform iterative error correction. The
digital front-end design flow is predominantly composed of
command-line invocations, structured text processing, and
code manipulation, making code agents a natural fit for this
domain.
These code agent platforms provide an official abstraction
called Skill as an atomic capability unit for environment
interaction and structured reasoning. A skill encapsulates a
single well-defined capability such as generating RTL code,
running simulation, or extracting error messages. It acts as
a self-contained module with clearly defined inputs, outputs,
and execution logic. This enables composition, reuse, and
independent updates. Consistent with the seven field skill
Algorithm 1 Circuit Skill Builder
1: Input
Project
P,
paper
R,
and
taxonomy
T
=
{w1, . . . , w6}
2: Output Skill set Snew and skill groups {Gj}
3:
4: Step 1. Summarize // Extract capabilities
5: M ←Summarize innovations and functions from P and
R using LLM
6:
7: Step 2. Extract // Map to workflow steps
8: Scand ←∅
9: for each capability m ∈M do
10:
Identify target step wi ∈T for m
11:
Generate (N, F, C, P, IO) ←Extract fields from m and
P codebase
12:
Scand ←Scand ∪{(N, F, C, P, IO)}
13: end for
14:
15: Step 3. Post process // Standardize and organize
16: for each s ∈Scand do
17:
Complete s with schema Σ and done criteria G
18: end for
19: Snew ←Deduplicate(Scand)
20: Classify Snew into S1, . . . , S6 by workflow step
21: Compose groups {Gj} based on functional complemen-
tarity
22:
23: return Snew, {Gj}
specification in Section III-B, the formal representation of a
skill is
S = (N, F, C, P, IO, Σ, G)
(1)
where N is the skill name, F is the simple function de-
scription, C is the constraints section, P is the entrypoint
command, IO is the input and output specification, Σ is the
schema definition, and G is the done criteria. This abstraction
provides a consistent interface for composition, execution, and
experience accumulation.
III. METHODOLOGY
A. Workflow Decomposition and Skill Curation
As shown in Fig. 1, LEGO decomposes the digital front-
end design flow into six sequential steps. These steps are RTL
Spec Generation, Testbench Spec Generation, RTL Genera-
tion, Testbench Generation, EDA Tool, and Others. They cover
specification refinement, code synthesis, compilation, simula-
tion with tools such as Icarus Verilog [20] and Verilator [21],
and auxiliary utilities.
We model this workflow as a finite state machine. Let W =
{w1, . . . , w6} denote the workflow steps, and let Si denote the
skill set at step wi. The state at iteration t is
Ψ(t) =

wi, s(i)
j , A(t), D(t)
(2)

TABLE I
CIRCUIT SKILL LIST AND GROUP NOTATIONS IN LEGO
Step Skills
Group
#
Included Circuit Skills
RTL Spec
S1
8
hier submodule list prompt, hier outline prompt, hier subhier json prompt, hier function check prompt,
hier header check prompt, hier refine question prompt, hier refine integrate prompt, prompt enricher
S2
1
spec2rtl-understanding-pipeline
TB Spec
TS1
1
autobench circuit type classify
TS2
1
autobench tb scenarios prompt
TS3
1
autobench tb rules extract
TS4
1
autobench tb spec prompt
TS5
1
iverilog waveform parser
TS6
1
mage sim judge tb fix
TS7
1
verilogcoder case loader
RTL Gen
G1
1
verilogcoder rtl subtask prompt
G2
1
mage rtl generate
G3
1
autobench rtl prompt
G4
2
hier verilog gen prompt, spec ir codex rtl gen
TB Gen
TG1
1
autobench directgen prompt
TG2
1
autobench pychecker tb prompt
TG3
1
verilogcoder tb merge
EDA Tool
E1
3
iverilog compile, iverilog syntax fixer, spec2rtl-closed-loop
E2
5
iverilog compile, iverilog error localizer, iverilog error rag, iverilog code fixer, iverilog compile fix chain
E3
3
spec2rtl-closed-loop waveform feedback, iverilog simulator, verilogcoder waveform trace
Others
O1
2
iverilog error localizer, iverilog error rag
O2
1
autobench runinfo analyze
O3
2
mage token accounting, mage benchmark reader
O4
1
rtl fault injector
O5
1
hier tree ops
Total: 6 stages, 24 skill groups, 42 circuit skills
where wi ∈W is the current step, s(i)
j
∈Si is the active
skill, A(t) are accumulated artifacts, and D(t) tracks design
decisions. The transition function δ maps Ψ(t) to Ψ(t+1) and
governs step progression based on EDA tool feedback.
To construct the skill sets Si, we survey over 100 papers
on LLM assisted front-end design and select 11 representative
open-source projects [8]–[10], [22]–[29]. From these projects,
42 standardized circuit skills are extracted and organized into
S1 through S6 across all six-steps as shown in Table I. This
systematic formulation, combined with skill construction from
proven sources, enables up to 70.7% Pass@1 improvement
over the baseline in Experiments 1 and 2.
B. Skill Specification and Construction
To ensure cross-project compatibility, each circuit skill
follows
the
seven
field
specification
in
Eq.
(1).
The
fields are name N, function description F, constraints
C,
entrypoint
P,
input
and
output
specification
IO,
schema
Σ,
and
done
criteria
G.
The
naming
pat-
tern <project_abbr>_<function_abbr> guarantees
uniqueness, while the function description enables the agent
to select the appropriate skill at runtime. The entrypoint
P specifies the command-line invocation, IO and Σ define
data structures and formats, and G determines completion
conditions.
Circuit Skill Builder in Algorithm 1 automates skill con-
struction from open-source projects. Applying this pipeline to
11 projects yields 42 circuit skills organized into 24 groups
in Table I. Skills are grouped by functional complementarity
within each workflow step, ensuring similar input/output in-
terfaces for interchangeable composition. For instance, RTL
Gen groups G1 to G4 represent distinct methodologies such
as subtask decomposition, direct generation, specification-
driven generation, and hierarchical generation. They come
from different source projects. Beyond these circuit skills,
LEGO provides Agent Skill RAG to accumulate debugging and
design experience for each workflow step. Unlike traditional
vector-based RAG, Agent Skill RAG employs a lightweight
two-stage retrieval mechanism. First, the agent loads only
the concise descriptions of all available RAG entries in each
skill, maintaining minimal context overhead. When a relevant
entry is identified through semantic matching, the agent then
loads the complete knowledge unit with detailed fields such
as symptom pattern, root cause, fix strategy, and applicable
conditions. This lazy loading approach eliminates the need for
embedding models or reranking while enabling submillisecond
initial retrieval and real-time knowledge updates via simple
text appends. Retrieved fixes are injected as explicit prompts
to guide subsequent iterations.

Fig. 2. Step level view of the LEGO methodology.
C. Hierarchical Skill Architecture
As shown in Fig. 2, the skill system of LEGO comprises two
components. They are Template and Step Skill. A Template
encapsulates a preset combination of circuit skills, enabling
users to initiate design tasks directly without manual configu-
ration. Within a Template, users can also specify which circuit
skills to activate for each step, thereby adapting the system to
specific requirements.
The Step Skill component forms a three-layer hierarchy to-
gether with the top level LEGO Skill. The top layer defines the
overall workflow decomposition, execution order, and iteration
logic. The middle layer consists of six-step skills, each listing
available circuit skills and specifying active configurations
dynamically adjusted via the config template. The bottom layer
contains the circuit skills and Agent Skill RAG entries with
their complete definitions, forming the atomic execution units
of LEGO.
The entire system is lightweight and highly extensible
because it consists primarily of markdown files and requires
no complex environment setup. As illustrated in the right panel
of Fig. 2, the execution workflow is straightforward. The user
provides a config template and question list. The code agent
invokes the LEGO Skill and loads the configuration to select
active circuit skills for each step. It then proceeds through the
six-steps in order while preserving intermediate results. Finally
it generates a summary report upon completion.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
This section presents three complementary analyses. Sub-
section IV-A describes the experimental setup, including the
model, evaluation metric, and benchmark construction. Sub-
section IV-B evaluates the effectiveness of step decomposition
and individual circuit skills. Subsection IV-C studies composed
skill pipelines and compares different combinations to validate
the flexibility and effectiveness of LEGO.
A. Experimental Setup
To ensure that the behavior of each constructed circuit skill
remains as close as possible to its source project, we use the
official repositories reported in the corresponding papers for
all open-source projects except VerilogAssistant. For Verilo-
gAssistant we use an open-source reproduction repository on
GitHub [30]. To evaluate the generality and effectiveness of
the constructed skills, we do not install LEGO skills into the
Codex directory, which allows us to test whether the model
can autonomously use the constructed skills. All experiments
use Codex CLI version 0.98.0 as the code agent platform with
gpt-5.2-codex and extra-high (xhigh) reasoning effort. Every
interaction with the 

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===

