=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
Preprint. Under review.
CoEvoSkills: Self-Evolving Agent Skills via Co-Evolutionary
Verification
Hanrong Zhang1∗
Shicheng Fan1∗
Henry Peng Zou1
Yankai Chen2,3†
Zhenting Wang2
Jiayu Zhou4
Chengze Li1
Wei-Chieh Huang1
Yifei Yao5
Kening Zheng1
Xue (Steve) Liu2,3
Xiaoxiao Li6
Philip S. Yu1
1University of Illinois Chicago
2MBZUAI
3McGill University
4Columbia University
5Zhejiang University
6University of British Columbia
{hzhan135, psyu}@uic.edu
xiaoxiao.li@ece.ubc.ca
Abstract
Anthropic proposes the concept of skills for LLM agents to tackle multi-step
professional tasks that simple tool invocations cannot address. A tool is
a single, self-contained function, whereas a skill is a structured bundle
of interdependent multi-file artifacts. Currently, skill generation is not
only label-intensive due to manual authoring, but also may suffer from
human–machine cognitive misalignment, which can lead to degraded agent
performance, as evidenced by evaluations on SkillsBench. Therefore, we
aim to enable agents to autonomously generate skills. However, exist-
ing self-evolving methods designed for tools cannot be directly applied
to skills due to their increased complexity. To address these issues

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
Preprint. Under review.
CoEvoSkills: Self-Evolving Agent Skills via Co-Evolutionary
Verification
Hanrong Zhang1∗
Shicheng Fan1∗
Henry Peng Zou1
Yankai Chen2,3†
Zhenting Wang2
Jiayu Zhou4
Chengze Li1
Wei-Chieh Huang1
Yifei Yao5
Kening Zheng1
Xue (Steve) Liu2,3
Xiaoxiao Li6
Philip S. Yu1
1University of Illinois Chicago
2MBZUAI
3McGill University
4Columbia University
5Zhejiang University
6University of British Columbia
{hzhan135, psyu}@uic.edu
xiaoxiao.li@ece.ubc.ca
Abstract
Anthropic proposes the concept of skills for LLM agents to tackle multi-step
professional tasks that simple tool invocations cannot address. A tool is
a single, self-contained function, whereas a skill is a structured bundle
of interdependent multi-file artifacts. Currently, skill generation is not
only label-intensive due to manual authoring, but also may suffer from
human–machine cognitive misalignment, which can lead to degraded agent
performance, as evidenced by evaluations on SkillsBench. Therefore, we
aim to enable agents to autonomously generate skills. However, exist-
ing self-evolving methods designed for tools cannot be directly applied
to skills due to their increased complexity. To address these issues, we
propose CoEvoSkills1, a self-evolving skills framework that enables agents
to autonomously construct complex, multi-file skill packages. Specifically,
CoEvoSkills couples a Skill Generator that iteratively refines skills with a
Surrogate Verifier that co-evolves to provide informative and actionable
feedback without access to ground-truth test content. On SkillsBench,
CoEvoSkills achieves the highest pass rate among five baselines on both
Claude Code and Codex, and also exhibits strong generalization capabilities
to six additional LLMs.
1
Introduction
LLM agents have advanced rapidly in reasoning, planning, and interaction with their
environments (Zhang et al., 2024; Zou et al., 2025; Huang et al., 2026; Zou et al., 2026;
Huang et al., 2025; Min et al., 2025b;a). Among the key drivers of this progress is the
ability to invoke external tools and APIs (Schick et al., 2023; Qin et al., 2023; Patil et al.,
2023). However, professional open-ended tasks, such as complex software repair, multi-step
scientific analysis, and enterprise data pipeline orchestration, require far more than isolated
tool invocations. Agents must orchestrate a coherent procedure across multiple steps and
artifacts: decomposing goals, coordinating tools, recovering from failures, and validating
intermediate outputs. This is profoundly challenging because decisions are long-horizon,
instructions and scripts are tightly coupled, and reliable environmental feedback is often
sparse or delayed.
To bridge the gap, Anthropic proposed the concept of agent skills (Anthropic, 2025c). Fig. 1
illustrates the difference between a tool and a skill: a tool is usually a simple function,
whereas a skill is a structured package of workflow instructions, executable scripts, and
domain references (Xu & Yan, 2026). According to the systematic evaluation presented in
SkillsBench (Li et al., 2026b), equipping agents with well-crafted skills yields consistent
∗Equal contribution.
†Corresponding author: yankaichen@acm.org
1Project page: https://zhang-henry.github.io/CoEvoSkills/
1
arXiv:2604.01687v2  [cs.AI]  12 Apr 2026

Preprint. Under review.
performance gains across a broad spectrum of professional domains, including software
engineering and scientific analysis etc., confirming that structured procedural guidance
substantially augments task-solving capability beyond what bare tool access affords.
Despite the demonstrated utility of skills, the prevailing paradigm relies almost entirely
on human authoring, a process that is both labor-intensive and difficult to scale, with
no systematic guarantee of output quality. As demonstrated in Fig. 6, the SkillsBench
evaluation (Li et al., 2026b) reveals that human-curated skills yield highly uneven gains:
while certain domains benefit substantially, others, such as Natural Science, even exhibit
degraded performance after skill integration. We hypothesize that a key driver of this
inconsistency is human–machine cognitive misalignment: workflows and abstractions
designed to be intuitive for human experts do not naturally match how LLM agents process
context, reason, and act under execution constraints.
Figure 1: Tool–skill difference illustration.
To reduce manual effort,
recent approaches have
shifted from pre-defining
static tools or APIs to self-
evolve tools or tools li-
braries by the LLM agent
itself (Chen et al., 2026;
Li et al., 2026a; Lu et al.,
2026; Wang et al., 2023;
Xia et al., 2025).
How-
ever, these methods suf-
fer from a fundamental
tool–skill gap:
they are
inherently designed for
one-shot generation of simple, self-contained functions, and are inadequate for the creation
of structured, multi-file skill packages that coordinate workflow instructions, executable
scripts, and domain references across multiple artifacts. Moreover, the work Alzubi et al.
(2026) relies heavily on ground-truth supervision for failure diagnosis, limiting applicabil-
ity in real-world settings where such signals are unavailable.
0
(baseline)
1
2
3
4
5
Evolution Iteration
0
20
40
60
80
100
Pass Rate (%)
32%
53%
34%
32%
32%
44%
63%
72%
75%
Agent with skills created by our method
Agent with no skills
Agent with human-curated skills
Agent with Anthropic's naive skill-creator
Figure 2: Skill quality improvement across 5 evolution
rounds. CoEvoSkills surpasses human-curated skills within
5 evolution iterations.
To address these challenges,
we propose a self-evolving
skills framework CoEvoSkills.
To overcome the inherent un-
reliability of one-shot multi-
file skill generation, we de-
sign a main component, the
Skill
Generator, to itera-
tively generate and refine
skill bundles, with skill qual-
ity steadily improving across
evolution rounds, as shown
in Fig. 2.
It also main-
tains a persistent conversa-
tion context that accumulates
high-fidelity feedback from
another main component, the
Surrogate
Verifier, across
iterations.
The Surrogate
Verifier, a separate LLM session without inheriting the generator’s biases, is designed
to address the lack of ground-truth feedback in the real world. It synthesizes test cases
and scripts according to the task instructions and environment, and provides high-fidelity
feedback to the Skill Generator to co-evolutionarily improve skill generation quality.
In summary, our key contributions are as follows: ❶We introduce CoEvoSkills, a co-
evolutionary framework for LLM agents to self-evolve robust multi-file skill packages.
❷We demonstrate key insights on autonomous skill generation: (i) agents create better skills
2

Preprint. Under review.
than human-curated ones by capturing the reasoning patterns and tool-use strategies that
agents actually need; (ii) self-evolved skills are portable across different model families, as the
evolved packages encode reusable task structure rather than model-specific artifacts. ❸We
conduct extensive experiments on SkillsBench, CoEvoSkills achieves the highest pass rate
of 71.1% (+40.5pp over the no-skill baseline), substantially surpassing all five baselines.
Furthermore, skills evolved by a single frontier LLM transfer effectively to six additional
LLMs from five companies, yielding 35–45pp gains over their respective no-skill baselines.
2
Related Work
LLM Agent Skills.
Anthropic introduced Agent Skills (Anthropic, 2025c) as shown in
Fig. 1. A recent systematization (Jiang et al., 2026) further distinguishes skills from atomic
tools and one-off plans, defining them as reusable modules with explicit applicability and
termination conditions. SkillsBench (Li et al., 2026b) provides the first systematic bench-
mark for evaluating agent skills, comprising 87 tasks across 11 domains with deterministic
verifiers. Several learning-based approaches attempt to close this gap. SAGE (Wang et al.,
2025) trains agents on chains of related tasks with a skill-integrated reward, yet the resulting
skills remain single-file programmatic functions rather than structured multi-file packages.
SkillRL (Xia et al., 2026) distills trajectories into a hierarchical skill bank via reinforcement
learning, but relies on teacher-guided distillation and produces prompt-level heuristics
rather than executable artifacts. CoEvoSkills instead generates structured, multi-file skill
packages and evolves them through iterative verification.
Self-evolving LLM Agents.
A growing body of work automates the self-improvement
of agent capabilities, yet existing methods exhibit two recurring shortcomings. First, most
self-evolving pipelines produce only single tools or function APIs or just prompt heuris-
tics (Wang et al., 2023; Li et al., 2026a; Xia et al., 2025; Lu et al., 2026; Chen et al., 2026; He
et al., 2026), and none can construct the multi-file structure a full skill package demands.
Moreover, AutoSkill (Yang et al., 2026) and AutoRefine (Qiu et al., 2026) extract reusable
knowledge as prompt templates rather than executable packages, while SEAgent (Sun et al.,
2025) internalizes capabilities into model weights, making them non-inspectable and non-
transferable (Jiang et al., 2026). Second, some methods heavily rely on ground-truth signals
for failure diagnosis, limiting applicability when such supervision is unavailable (Alzubi
et al., 2026; Sun et al., 2025). CoEvoSkills addresses both limitations by iteratively generating
and evolving structured, multi-file skill packages, and employs information-isolated surro-
gate verification to provide structured failure diagnostics and feedback instead of relying
on ground-truth signals.
3
Method
3.1
Method Overview
To answer the research question posed in Sec. 1, two core difficulties must be overcome:
(1) generating a multi-file skill bundle in a single pass is inherently unreliable; and (2) the
agent lacks ground-truth feedback during self-evolution. CoEvoSkills addresses both chal-
lenges by co-evolving the agent’s skill and a corresponding surrogate verifier. Fig. 3 illus-
trates the overall framework, and Alg. 1 formalizes the complete co-evolutionary procedure.
Given a task input, the Skill Generator produces candidate skills and executes them
to obtain task outputs. An informationally isolated Surrogate Verifier then indepen-
dently generates and evolves test assertions against those outputs, providing structured
failure diagnostics back to the generator. The two components co-evolve through iterative
generate–verify–refine cycles: whenever the surrogate tests pass, a ground-truth oracle
test re-executes the skill in a fresh environment and returns only an opaque success/failure
signal. If the oracle passes, the final evolved skill is deployed to the target LLM agent (e.g.,
Claude Code (Anthropic, 2025a) and Codex (OpenAI, 2025)); otherwise, the signal triggers a
new co-evolution iteration, in which the verifier escalates its tests and the generator refines
3

Preprint. Under review.
Task Input
(Instruction & 
Constrains)
Self-Reflection
If surrogate
passes
Figure 3: Overview of the CoEvoSkills co-evolutionary framework. The Skill Generator and
Surrogate Verifier co-evolve through iterative refinement. The verifier provides structured
failure feedback to drive skill improvement, while a ground-truth oracle test returns only an
opaque pass/fail signal, triggering test escalation and ensuring strict information isolation.
the skill accordingly. Next, we formalize the task setting as a partially observable Markov
decision process (POMDP) in Sec. 3.2 and present CoEvoSkills in detail in Sec. 3.3.
3.2
Problem Formulation
Task Definition.
Since the LLM agent never knows what the held-out ground-truth tests
actually check, i.e., the success criteria remain entirely hidden, we define the task environ-
ment as a POMDP M = ⟨X , A, T, O, Ω, R⟩. Here, X is the underlying state space, i.e., the
complete filesystem and processes, A comprises the agent’s actions, i.e., terminal commands
and file edits, T(x′ | x, a) is the deterministic state transition upon executing action a in
state x and reaching successor state x′, O is the observation space, i.e., command execution
results, Ω(o | x, a) maps post-action states to partial observations, and R(xT) ∈[0, 1] evalu-
ates the output files in final state xT against hidden ground-truth tests. Because the agent
only receives partial observations ot ∼Ω(· | xt, at), it acts based on the observation–action
history ht = (o1, a1, . . . , at−1, ot).
Optimization Objective.
Unlike atomic tools that offer simple functional interfaces, a
skill S (Anthropic, 2025c) is a structured bundle of domain-specific instructions, executable
scripts, and reference materials that collectively guide an agent in navigating a task space.
The skill conditions the agent’s policy:
at ∼πθ(at | ht, S),
(1)
where πθ is an LLM policy. We define the expected terminal reward under skill S as:
J(S) ≜Eτ∼P(τ|πθ, S, M)
R(xT)

,
(2)
where τ = (o1, a1, . . . , aT−1, oT) is the execution trajectory. Our objective is to discover an
optimal skill S∗that maximizes J:
S∗= arg max
S
J(S).
(3)
3.3
CoEvoSkills Framework
However, directly optimizing J(S) (Eq. 3) is intractable: ground-truth evaluation is com-
putationally expensive and returns only an opaque pass/fail signal; no test content or
failure details are revealed to the agent. To provide dense, actionable feedback, we intro-
duce a surrogate verifier reward ˜R(x, V), defined by a suite of deterministic test assertions
V = {e1, . . . , e|V|} generated by an independent verifier
˜R(x, V) ≜
1
|V|
|V|
∑
k=1
1[ek(x)] ∈[0, 1],
(4)
4

Preprint. Under review.
Algorithm 1 CoEvoSkills co-evolution Algorithm
Require: Instruction I, environment E, meta-skill Smeta (skill-creator)
Require: Evolution iters N=5, surrogate iters M=15, context cap β=0.7
Require: LLM policy πθ (generator), independent verifier policy πV
θ
Ensure: Final evolved skill S∗
1: C ←(I, Smeta)
// in: instruction I, meta-skill; out: initial context C
2: S(0) ∼πθ(· | C)
// in: context C; out: skill bundle S(0) (code + SKILL.md)
3: V(0) ←∅
// surrogate verifier test suite
4: i ←0; j ←0; n ←0; r ←0
// skill version; test-suite version; evolution iter.; surrogate iter.
5: Rbest ←0; S∗←S(0)
// Rbest: best oracle score so far
6: while n < N and r < M do
7:
// — Skill Generator: execute and produce outputs —
8:
x(i) ←Φ(S(i), E)
// Φ: execute skill in env and collect outputs; out: artifacts x(i)
9:
if LLM context usage proportion > β then
10:
break
// prevent LLM context overflow
11:
end if
12:
// — Surrogate Verifier: evaluate and refine (Eq. 4, Eq. 5) —
13:
˜R(i,j) ←˜R(x(i), V(j))
// ˜R: surrogate reward; in: artifacts, tests; out: pass rate ∈[0, 1]
14:
if ˜R(i,j) < 1 then
15:
F (i,j) ∼πV
θ

· | I, x(i), V(j)
// in: I, artifacts x(i), tests V(j); out: diagnostic F
16:
C ←C ⊕F (i,j)
// append error diagnostic F to generator context C
17:
S(i+1) ∼πθ

· | S(i), C

// skill refinement (Eq. 7)
18:
i ←i+1; r ←r+1; continue
// evolve S; V(j) locked
19:
end if
20:
// — Ground-Truth Oracle Test: independent re-execution in fresh environment —
21:
ˆx(i) ←Φ(S(i), E′)
// in: skill S(i), fresh env E′; out: artifacts ˆx(i)
22:
R(i) ←R( ˆx(i)); n ←n+1
// R: ground-truth oracle reward; out: score ∈[0, 1]
23:
if R(i) = 1 then
24:
S∗←S(i); return S∗
// early exit: perfect score
25:
else if R(i) > Rbest then
26:
Rbest ←R(i); S∗←S(i)
// save best snapshot
27:
end if
28:
// — Co-evolution: test escalation (Eq. 6, Eq. 8) —
29:
C ←C ⊕1[R(i)<1]
// 1[·]: indicator fn; append oracle pass/fail bit to C (no test content)
30:
V(j+1) ∼πV
θ

· | I, x(i), V(j)
// verifier escalation (Eq. 8)
31:
j ←j+1
// V evolves; S(i) re-evaluated next iteration
32: end while
33: return S∗
// save best skill
where x denotes the output files produced by skill execution and 1[ek(x)] indicates whether
assertion ek passes on x. However, the surrogate is only useful insofar as it faithfully
approximates the hi

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Preprint. Under review.
c. Update or add scripts in your skill's scripts/ directory that implement the fix
d. Re-run your skill's script to regenerate the output from scratch
e. After fixing any import errors, also update SKILL.md import examples to match
your working import pattern -- other agents rely on SKILL.md for guidance.
Do NOT edit output files directly -- always fix the skill logic and re-run.
Then: sed -i 's/- \[ \] P5/- [x] P5/' /root/progress.md
PHASE 3 -- SUMMARIZE:
10. WRITE SUMMARY [P6]: Write an evolution summary to /root/evolution_summary.md containing:
- Skills created/updated this run and what knowledge they capture
- Specific improvements the next run should make
- Any remaining issues or gaps you identified
Then: sed -i 's/- \[ \] P6/- [x] P6/' /root/progress.md
11. VERIFY PROGRESS: cat /root/progress.md -- confirm ALL phases are [x].
If any are unchecked, complete them NOW before signaling task_complete.
12. Signal task_complete.
RULES:
- You MUST write /root/progress.md at the START and update it after each phase
- You MUST create or update skills BEFORE executing the task
- You MUST load skill-creator to create skills properly
- When you signal task_complete, the host will run an independent verifier
- If the verifier finds failures, fix your skill scripts and re-run -- do NOT edit output files directly
- You MUST write /root/evolution_summary.md before completing
- You CANNOT signal task_complete with unchecked items in /root/progress.md
- When tests fail, you MUST update your evo-* skill BEFORE regenerating output -- skills are persistent
memory
- WRITE BACK ALL RUNTIME FIXES: Any bug fix, missing function, or workaround you apply during execution
MUST be written back into the skill's scripts/ files -- the skill must work standalone for a
fresh agent
- COMPUTATIONAL BUDGET: All scripts must complete within the task timeout. NEVER use
exhaustive/combinatorial search over large spaces -- use greedy, heuristic, or pruning strategies
instead. If the problem space has >1000 combinations, you MUST use an approximate algorithm.
- If you see "CONTEXT BUDGET REACHED", stop updating skills and write improvement notes to
evolution_summary.md
---
Task Description:
{instruction}
{terminal_state}
F.2
Skill Discovery Hint
The following instruction is appended to the task description when pre-installed skills are
available (both evolved and human-curated conditions). Without this hint, agents frequently
fail to discover installed skills because skill metadata descriptions alone are insufficiently
salient.
Skill Discovery Hint
Important: Specialized skills are available as slash commands. Run the relevant
skill command before starting to get domain-specific guidance, code utilities, and
best practices for this task. Background reference documents are also available at
/root/environment/doc/. Read all documents there before starting.
F.3
Skill-Creator Autonomous Mode Instruction
For the Skill-Creator baseline (Sec. 4.2), the original skill-creator tool requires human
interaction at several steps (e.g., reviewing drafts, selecting test cases, approving iterations).
Because every method in our evaluation including CoEvoSkills operates without any human
involvement, retaining these interactive steps would introduce an inconsistency: Skill-
Creator would be the only condition receiving human guidance. We therefore replace
the interactive steps with autonomous equivalents, enabling fully unattended two-phase
operation: a first session generates skills and a second session uses the pre-installed results.
This ensures a fair, apples-to-apples comparison across all conditions under the same fully
automated protocol.
21

Preprint. Under review.
Skill-Creator Generate-Only Instruction
You are in SKILL GENERATION MODE (AUTONOMOUS — no human in the loop). Your ONLY job
is to create high-quality, reusable skills for the task described above.
Rules:
1. Do NOT solve the task. Do NOT produce any task output files.
2. Use the skill-creator to generate skills. Follow its full workflow: draft,
test, iterate (at least 3 iterations).
3. Save
final
skills
to
BOTH:
/root/.claude/skills/
(in-container)
and
/logs/agent/generated-skills/ (for extraction).
4. Each skill must have proper YAML frontmatter (name, description).
5. Focus on domain knowledge, constraints, edge cases — not step-by-step
solutions.
AUTONOMOUS MODE — skip all human interaction: Do NOT wait for feedback. Make all
decisions yourself. Do NOT launch eval-viewer or browser. For test cases: design,
run (spawn subagents), and grade them yourself. For iteration: analyze failures,
improve skill, re-test. Repeat at least 3 times.
F.4
Self-Generated Skills Prompt (Self-Generated Skills Baseline)
This prompt replicates the self-generation condition from SkillsBench (Li et al., 2026b)
(Appendix C.6). It is appended to the task instruction; the agent generates skills in-session
before solving the task, with no external verification.
Self-Generated Skills Prompt
Important: Generate Skills First
Before attempting to solve this task:
1. Analyze the task requirements and identify what domain knowledge, APIs, or
techniques are needed.
2. Write 1–5 modular skill documents.
3. Save each skill as a markdown file in environment/skills/.
4. Then solve the task using the skills you created as reference.
F.5
CoT-Guided Self-Generation Prompt
This prompt extends the Self-Generated Skills baseline with a structured five-step chain-of-
thought workflow. Despite the added structure, the agent still lacks external verification
feedback, and this condition achieves only 30.7% pass rate (comparable to the no-skill
baseline).
CoT-Guided Self-Generation Prompt
Step 1: Task Analysis — identify domain, tools, output format, pitfalls
Step 2: Skill Architecture Design — plan 1–3 focused skills
Step 3: Write Skills with Progressive Disclosure
(a) YAML frontmatter: name and description
(b) Key constraints and rules
(c) Step-by-step workflow with decision points
(d) Common
