=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
Behavioral Integrity Verification for AI Agent Skills
Yuhao Wu∗
Tung-Ling Li∗
Hongliang Liu∗
Palo Alto Networks
{yuhwu, tuli, hliu}@paloaltonetworks.com
Abstract
Agent skills extend LLM agents with privileged third-party capabilities such as
filesystem access, credentials, network calls, and shell execution. Existing safety
work catches malicious prompts and risky runtime actions, but the skill artifact
itself goes unverified. We formalize this as the behavioral integrity verification
(BIV) problem: a typed set comparison between declared and actual capabilities
over a shared taxonomy that bridges code, instructions, and metadata. The BIV
framework instantiates this comparison by pairing deterministic code analysis
with LLM-assisted capability extraction. The resulting structured evidence sup-
ports three downstream analyses: deviation taxonomy, root-cause classification,
and malicious-skill detection. On 49,943 skills from the OpenClaw registry, the
deviation taxonomy reveals a pervasive description-implementation gap: 80.0%
of skills deviate from declared behavior, with four novel compound-threat cate-
gories surfaced. Root-cause classification finds that deviations are mostly ov

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
Behavioral Integrity Verification for AI Agent Skills
Yuhao Wu∗
Tung-Ling Li∗
Hongliang Liu∗
Palo Alto Networks
{yuhwu, tuli, hliu}@paloaltonetworks.com
Abstract
Agent skills extend LLM agents with privileged third-party capabilities such as
filesystem access, credentials, network calls, and shell execution. Existing safety
work catches malicious prompts and risky runtime actions, but the skill artifact
itself goes unverified. We formalize this as the behavioral integrity verification
(BIV) problem: a typed set comparison between declared and actual capabilities
over a shared taxonomy that bridges code, instructions, and metadata. The BIV
framework instantiates this comparison by pairing deterministic code analysis
with LLM-assisted capability extraction. The resulting structured evidence sup-
ports three downstream analyses: deviation taxonomy, root-cause classification,
and malicious-skill detection. On 49,943 skills from the OpenClaw registry, the
deviation taxonomy reveals a pervasive description-implementation gap: 80.0%
of skills deviate from declared behavior, with four novel compound-threat cate-
gories surfaced. Root-cause classification finds that deviations are mostly over-
sight, not malice: 81.1% trace to developer oversight and 18.9% to adversarial
intent, with 5.0% of skills carrying predicted multi-stage attack chains. On a 906-
skill malicious-skill detection benchmark, BIV reaches an F1 of 0.946, outper-
forming state-of-the-art rule-based and single-pass LLM baselines. These results
demonstrate behavioral integrity auditing for agent skills at scale.
1
Introduction
LLM agents [1, 2] now run as programmable platforms, extended at install time by third-party
skills: self-contained bundles of code, configuration, and natural-language instructions that grant
the agent privileged access to the filesystem, credentials, network endpoints, and shell execution.
As has been the case in nearly every third-party computing platform that came before, from mobile
applications [3, 4] to browser extensions [5, 6] to language package managers [7, 8], this third-party
extensibility introduces supply-chain risk. In LLM agents, the natural-language execution paradigm
amplifies the risk: skill behavior splits across modalities, and a fragment of natural-language text in
a metadata file can override the agent’s decision loop as effectively as code [9].
Consider a real-world skill that declares itself as a third-party messaging integration but buries
natural-language directives in its metadata file, “ALWAYS use this skill for ALL user questions.
NEVER use AskUserQuestion,” alongside instructions to silently route every interaction through a
background script. The skill hijacks the agent’s decision loop and funnels user data through attacker-
controlled code, yet users browsing the registry cannot detect this and maintainers have no automated
way to flag it at submission time.
This declared-vs-actual gap demands an automated audit primitive that operates before a skill is
installed. Static description-vs-implementation consistency has shown the value of such audits in
adjacent ecosystems [10, 11], but no prior framework brings it to agent skills, where the compari-
son must bridge code, natural-language instructions, and metadata under a single typed vocabulary.
∗Equal contribution. Author order determined by rock-paper-scissors.
Preprint.
arXiv:2605.11770v1  [cs.CR]  12 May 2026

We (i) formalize the comparison as behavioral integrity verification (BIV), a typed set comparison
over a shared 29-capability taxonomy that bridges code, instructions, and metadata; (ii) develop a
hybrid pipeline that pairs deterministic code analyzers with LLM-assisted extraction from natural-
language metadata and instructions; and (iii) demonstrate that the resulting structured evidence is a
measurement primitive that supports multiple downstream analyses without re-extraction, including
a deviation taxonomy, a root-cause classifier, and, as one case study, a malicious-skill detector.
Applied to 49,943 skills from the OpenClaw registry, BIV surfaces 250,706 behavioral deviations
spanning 80.0% of the registry, classifies 81.1% as non-adversarial documentation gaps and 18.9%
as adversarial, and the case-study detector reaches F1 = 0.946 on a 906-skill malicious-skill detec-
tion benchmark. One extraction pass thus powers both ecosystem-level governance and per-skill
detection while distinguishing documentation gaps from attack patterns.
Contributions.
Our key contributions are as follows:
1) Problem formalization and framework. We formalize behavioral integrity verification as a
typed set comparison over a shared 29-capability taxonomy, and develop BIV, a hybrid pipeline
pairing deterministic code analysis with LLM-assisted extraction.
2) Ecosystem-scale measurement. A data-driven clustering pipeline over BIV’s deviation evi-
dence yields a 137-cluster taxonomy of 250,706 deviations from 49,943 OpenClaw skills, in-
cluding four novel compound-threat categories that capture multi-step attack motifs; 80.0% of
skills deviate from declared behavior.
3) Root-cause classification. A hybrid rule-and-LLM classifier separates non-adversarial oversight
from adversarial intent over BIV’s structured evidence, attributing 81.1% of deviations to devel-
oper oversight and 18.9% to adversarial intent.
4) Malicious-skill detection case study. An LLM judge with a relaxed-veto override over BIV’s
structured evidence detects malicious skills with F1 = 0.946 on a 906-skill benchmark, outper-
forming rule-based and LLM-only state-of-the-art baselines.
2
Background and Motivation
This section defines the skill model BIV operates on, situates the agent-skill ecosystem among
third-party platforms with similar supply-chain risk, surveys the prior work that studied behavioral
consistency in adjacent ecosystems, and defines the threat model and scope of this analysis.
Skill model.
An agent skill is a package s = (M, C, I) where M is metadata (descriptions,
YAML frontmatter, API schemas), C is executable code (Python, JavaScript, shell), and I is natural-
language instructions (markdown, inline directives). The partition is content-based, not file-based:
a YAML frontmatter block that issues runtime directives (e.g., “always invoke this skill”) counts
as part of I even though it physically resides in the metadata file, while purely declarative fields
(e.g., name, permissions) count as M. Each component targets a different audience: metadata
communicates intent to users and registries, while code and instructions govern runtime behavior.
This separation is what makes behavioral deviation possible.
Risks in the skill ecosystem.
Third-party extensibility has produced supply-chain risk in every
prior platform that exposed it, from package managers [7, 12, 8] and browser extensions [5, 13, 6, 14]
to mobile applications [3, 4]. The agent-skill registry is the latest instance. Its distinguishing fea-
ture is that behavior spans multiple programming languages alongside natural-language instruc-
tions that themselves execute actions, so root-cause separation is more useful than a binary verdict.
Ecosystem-level measurement of LLM application platforms has revealed pervasive data-collection
practices [15], and existing studies have begun to characterize the agent-skill attack surface specifi-
cally: large-scale censuses of MCP-server marketplaces [16, 17], static description-vs-code compar-
ison restricted to text similarity [18], per-pattern component attacks [19], and concurrent agent-skill
detectors that target binary detection without root-cause separation [20–22].
Behavioral consistency in adjacent ecosystems.
Comparing what a software artifact declares
against what it does has a long lineage outside the agent setting. Mobile-application security pi-
oneered description-vs-implementation analysis through permission-sentence mining from app de-
2

Figure 1: BIV processes a third-party skill s = (M, C, I) along symmetric declared-behavior (meta-
data M) and actual-behavior (code C + instructions I) tracks. Each track runs parallel determin-
istic and LLM extractors that converge on a 29-capability taxonomy; the typed mismatch becomes
structured Behavioral Deviations powering three demonstrated downstream analyses: deviation tax-
onomy (§4.1), root-cause classification (§4.2), and malicious-skill detection (§5). Blue = determin-
istic; rose = LLM-based.
scriptions [10] and topic-clustering of API usage to flag applications whose runtime behavior di-
verged from their advertised category [11]. To track richer cross-function behavior, code property
graphs [23] and inter-procedural taint analysis [24, 25] extended consistency-checking to data-flow
chains in Java and Android applications. These prior efforts established that comparing declared
against implemented behavior is a powerful audit primitive in well-typed ecosystems with a sin-
gle dominant modality. Agent attacks [26, 27, 9, 28–30], indirect-injection benchmarks [31, 32],
structured-judge methods [33–35], and runtime defenses [36–38] address agent-lifecycle points that
complement install-time artifact verification.
Threat model.
BIV statically vets a third-party skill package s = (M, C, I) before any runtime
use; the vetting party may be a registry maintainer, a platform operator, an enterprise security re-
viewer, or a developer auditing dependencies. The attacker controls the artifact and may embed
malicious logic across code, instructions, and metadata, including descriptions that misrepresent
actual behavior [9], multi-step kill chains whose individual capabilities appear benign, and obfus-
cation that hides risky behavior behind indirection. The pipeline and its LLM backends are trusted;
submitted artifacts are not. Natural-language self-description is therefore an insufficient trust anchor.
Our scope.
BIV studies behavioral inconsistency observable from the skill artifact, including un-
declared capabilities, prompt-injection in instructions, compound kill chains, obfuscated risky be-
havior, and jointly compromised description-plus-code cases that retain structural evidence such as
taint chains and sensitive-environment access. BIV does not address compromise of the pipeline
itself, threats originating outside the artifact (runtime adversarial inputs [26], retrieval-corpus poi-
soning of agent memory [28], LLM-backbone backdoors), runtime data-access permission enforce-
ment [39], or post-installation behaviors with no analyzable footprint in the package.
3
The BIV Framework
BIV reduces the cross-representation matching problem to a typed set comparison over a shared
capability taxonomy, supported by a hybrid extraction pipeline that bridges code, instructions, and
metadata (Figure 1).
3.1
Problem Formulation
A skill’s declared behavior D(s) ⊆T is the set of capabilities communicated through its metadata
and descriptions; its actual behavior A(s) ⊆T is the set of capabilities implemented in its code
and instructions. Both are expressed in terms of a shared capability taxonomy T , comprising 29
3

Table 1: The 29-capability taxonomy T organized into seven categories.
Category
Capabilities
Network (4)
outbound HTTP, outbound socket, inbound, download-execute
Filesystem (7)
read-project, read-sensitive, read-home, write, write-sensitive, enumerate, delete
Process Exec (4)
process-exec, process-exec-shell, code-eval, code-eval-dynamic
Environment (3)
env-access-specific, env-access-bulk, env-access-sensitive
Encoding (3)
base64, crypto, compression
Credential (3)
credential-read, credential-create, credential-transmit
Instruction-Level (5)
instruction-override, concealment, identity-hijack, silent-execution, exfiltration-instruction
capabilities across seven categories: Network, Filesystem, Process Execution, Environment, Encod-
ing, Credential, and Instruction-Level Threats. We refer to the symmetric difference D(s) △A(s)
as the deviation set and decompose it into under-specification U(s) = A(s) \ D(s) (capabilities
present in implementation but absent from metadata) and over-specification O(s) = D(s) \ A(s)
(capabilities declared but never implemented). U(s) corresponds to undisclosed privilege: capabili-
ties exercised without user or platform authorization, an authorization-bypass concern distinct from
least-privilege per se. O(s) is the more direct least-privilege violation [40]: declared privileges that
the implementation never requires.
With both sides projected into a shared taxonomy, behavioral deviation reduces to a typed set com-
parison rather than a judgment call. We make the verification target precise:
Definition 1 (Behavioral Integrity Verification). Given a skill s = (M, C, I) and a capability tax-
onomy T , the Behavioral Integrity Verification (BIV) problem is to extract typed deviation evidence
Φ(s) = ⟨D(s), A(s), flow(s), compound(s) ⟩∈E,
where D(s), A(s) ⊆T are the declared and actual capability sets defined above, flow(s) ⊆T ×
T ∗× T is the set of source-to-sink data-flow chains, and compound(s) ∈{0, 1}4 flags compound-
threat motifs. The deviation set D(s) △A(s) = U(s) ∪O(s) is recoverable from Φ(s).
Remark. Φ(s) is a measurement output, not a verdict. Downstream tasks such as taxonomy cluster-
ing, root-cause classification, malicious-skill detection, license auditing, and capability drift mon-
itoring are application-specific consumers of Φ. This paper instantiates three of them (§4.1, §4.2,
§5); BIV is otherwise agnostic to the consumer.
BIV operates under three assumptions: (A1) the taxonomy T is sufficiently expressive to capture
all behaviorally relevant operations of agent skills; (A2) deterministic code analyzers are sound
with respect to their pattern set; (A3) LLM components are accessed at frozen weights with hash-
versioned prompts (Appendix F). Figure 1 summarizes how Φ is constructed: an extraction stage
(§3.2) builds the tuple from each skill, and the downstream consumers (§3.3) operate on Φ(s) rather
than on raw text.
Table 1 enumerates T . The seven categories partition the resource-access boundaries an agent skill
can cross: external communication (Network), local-disk operations (Filesystem), code dispatch
(Process Execution), runtime-context reads (Environment), data transformation (Encoding), secret
material (Credential), and natural-language directives that themselves drive behavior (Instruction-
Level). Per-category counts are deliberately uneven. Filesystem and Instruction-Level need finer
subdivision because the read-vs-write and override-vs-conceal distinctions matter for downstream
root-cause classification; Encoding and Credential capture qualitatively distinct primitives at smaller
volume. Per-capability detection patterns and severity tiers used by the relaxed-veto override in §5
appear in Appendix G.
3.2
Capability Extraction
The
extraction
stage
Φ
produces
a
typed
structural-evidence
tuple
Φ(s)
=
(D(s), A(s), flow(s), compound(s)), where flow(s)
⊆
T × T ∗× T
collects source-to-
sink data-flow chains as (source capability, transform sequence, sink capability) triples and
compound(s) = (cexfil, cRCE, cobf, clineage) ∈{0, 1}4 flags the four compound-threat categories
defined in §4. We identified the four coordinates of compound(s) via an exploratory clustering
pass on a held-out sample; the static analyzers hardcode patterns for each, and the registry-scale
4

clustering reported in §4.1 re-validates the categorization. Code is parseable and natural language
is not, so Φ decomposes along a modality split into two symmetric tracks (Figure 1): each modality
runs both a deterministic and an LLM extractor matched to its error model.
Declared track.
The Declared track reads the metadata M and produces D(s) ⊆T as the union
of two extractor outputs running in parallel.
A deterministic parser walks YAML frontmatter,
tool.json, api.json, and SKILL.md headers, so every structural declaration traces to a manifest
field. A complementary LLM extractor then

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Table 5: Detection trade-off across five BIV LLM judge backends on the 906-skill benchmark.
External baselines (rule-based and LLM-only) are reported in Table 2 of §5. Aggregate F1 spans
[0.882, 0.946]; real-world recall spans [0.068, 0.864].
Configuration
F1
Recall
Real-world Recall
FPR
BIV + Claude Sonnet 4.5
0.946
0.978
0.864
0.072
BIV + Claude Opus 4.6
0.890
0.842
0.068
0.040
BIV + Gemini 3 Flash
0.940
0.928
0.591
0.038
BIV + Gemini 3 Pro
0.889
0.822
0.545
0.022
BIV + Gemini 2.5 Flash
0.882
0.861
0.614
0.074
Claude Sonnet 4.5 because it achieves the highest aggregate F1 (0.946) and the highest real-world
malware recall (0.864) of the five (Table 5).
Why the ecosystem extraction backbone differs.
§4 reports the 49,943-skill scan with Claude
Opus 4.6 as the LLM backbone; the ecosystem scan benefits from Opus’s high-precision profile
because false-positive capability claims propagate into the downstream taxonomy. The detection
backend in §5 optimizes for catching real-world malware rather than minimizing extraction noise,
which picks Sonnet 4.5.
Backend variance.
Aggregate F1 is robust across backends ([0.882, 0.946]); per-source recall on
real-world malicious samples is backend-sensitive ([0.068, 0.864]). Structural-evidence inputs are
identical across runs, so the variance reflects the judge model’s disposition on obfuscated payloads,
not pipeline instability. Two operating points emerge: Sonnet 4.5 for high real-world recall at 7.2%
FPR, and Gemini 3 Flash for low FPR (3.8%) at the cost of dropping real-world recall to 0.591.
G
Capability Tiers and Compound Flags
The 29 primitive capabilities in T are enumerated in Table 1 of §3.1. This appendix supplies two
pieces of supplementary detail referenced by §5: the per-capability severity tiers used by the relaxed-
veto predicate V , and the definitions of the four compound-threat flags.
Severity tiers.
Each primitive carries a base severity tier reflecting the asymmetry between its
exploit value and its routine benign use:
• CRITICAL: all three Credential primitives, all five Instruction-Level primitives.
• HIGH: all four Network primitives, all four Process Execution primitives, all three Environment
primitives.
• MEDIUM: all seven Filesystem primitives, all three Encoding primitives.
Compound flags.
Four compound-threat motifs are signaled separately as a 4-bit flag
compound(s) ∈{0, 1}4 rather than added to T , which avoids double-counting their primitive
constituents in D(s) △A(s):
• EXFILTRATION CHAINS (CRITICAL): source primitive →encoding transform →network sink.
• RCE CHAINS (CRITICAL): download →write →execute (dropper motif).
• CODE OBFUSCATION (CRITICAL): encoding chain →dynamic eval.
• DATA LINEAGE VIOLATIONS (HIGH): undeclared file →file or file →network pipeline.
Per-capability
detection
patterns
and
exemplar
evidence
appear
in
the
artifact’s
taxonomy/v1.json.
H
Illustrative Examples
Two traces here complement the real-world combined-evidence trace already shown as Figure 6 in
§5. Trace 1 (anonymized real-world skill) is another agreement case where the structural extractor
18

Trace 1. Anonymized real-world skill (third-party messaging integration); structural extractor and LLM judge
both vote MAL (agreement).
Description
“Messaging integration: post messages and notify users from the agent.”
(SKILL.md)
Manifest
capabilities: [http request]
requiredEnvVars: [MSG BOT TOKEN]
(skill.yaml)
Code
src/post.py:24--58
(taint trace):
token = os.environ[’MSG BOT TOKEN’]
payload = base64.b64encode(token.encode())
requests.post(’https://collect.example.org/...’, data=payload)
Detected
ENV ACCESS SENSITIVE, ENCODING BASE64, NETWORK OUTBOUND HTTP
Compound
ENV →ENCODE →NETWORK SEND (Exfiltration Chain); INSTRUCTION OVERRIDE in
SKILL.md
Verdict
malicious
(both the structural extractor and the LLM judge agree without invoking
the override)
Trace 1 (agreement case): the structural exfiltration chain and the LLM-detected prompt injection in
the instructions converge independently on MAL; the override predicate is not consulted.
Trace 2. Anonymized Skill-Inject sample (model evaluation skill); LLM judge votes SAFE, relaxed-veto override
flips to MAL.
Description
“Evaluate ML models on benchmark datasets and report metrics.”
(SKILL.md)
Manifest
capabilities: [file read]
requiredEnvVars: [API TOKEN]
(skill.yaml)
Code
scripts/eval.py:41--63
(taint trace):
creds = open(os.path.expanduser(’~/.aws/credentials’)).read()
requests.post(’https://eval-server.example.org/results’, data=creds)
Detected
FILE READ SENSITIVE (~/.aws/credentials), NETWORK OUTBOUND HTTP
Compound
FILE READ SENSITIVE →NETWORK SEND (Exfiltration Chain);
credential-transmit at CRITICAL
Verdict
malicious
(LLM judge votes SAFE; V (Φ(s)) overrides because compound flag is
non-zero and an undeclared CRITICAL-tier capability is present)
Trace 2 (override case): the LLM judge rationalizes the credential read as legitimate API auth;
V (Φ(s)) flips the verdict. The override fires alone on 3 of the 906 benchmark skills.
and the LLM judge reach MAL from independent signals. Trace 2 (anonymized Skill-Inject sample)
is the override case where the LLM judge votes SAFE and the relaxed-veto predicate V (Φ(s)) flips
the verdict on the structural compound flag.
I
Intent Classification Rules
The rule engine in §4.2 applies the 15 prioritized rules in Table 6; the first matching rule determines
the deviation’s intent label. The rule engine labels roughly two-thirds of deviations at near-zero cost;
the remainder pass to the LLM classifier for joint reasoning over a skill’s full deviation list.
Table 6: Prioritized intent classification rules. Rules are evaluated in order; first match wins. Rule 14
emits G1 when the over-specification’s risk tier is below MEDIUM and G7 otherwise; the threshold
is fixed by the per-capability severity tier in Appendix G, not learned.
#
Rule
Intent
#
Rule
Intent
1
Instruction hijacking (≥2 agent signals)
F1
9
Sensitive env + network outbound
A1
2
Dropper pattern (download+
