=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
MalSkillBench: A Runtime-Verified Benchmark of Malicious
Agent Skills
Wenbo Guo∗
honywenair@gmail.com
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore
Wei Zeng∗
zengwei@stu.scu.edu.cn
Sichuan University
China
Chengwei Liu†
chengwei.liu@nankai.edu.cn
Nankai University
Singapore
Xiaojun Jia
jiaxiaojunqaq@gmail.com
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore
Yijia Xu
xuyijia@scu.edu.cn
Sichuan University
China
Lei Tang
layne.tang@digidations.com
DIGIDATIONS PTE. LTD.
Singapore
Yong Fang
yfang@scu.edu.cn
Sichuan University
China
Yang Liu
yangliu@ntu.edu.sg
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore
Abstract
AI coding agents such as Claude Code and Gemini CLI increas-
ingly extend themselves with third-party skills, markdown pack-
ages that bundle natural-language instructions, executable scripts,
and tool permissions. Because a skill is at once executable code
and agent-facing instruction, it introduces a software supply chain
dependency whose risk is neither pure code nor pure prompt. Detec-
tion tools have never been measured against verified ground truth
that spans this hybrid space, leaving their effectiveness unknown
and wild-only evaluations systematically biased.
We present MalSkillBen

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
MalSkillBench: A Runtime-Verified Benchmark of Malicious
Agent Skills
Wenbo Guo∗
honywenair@gmail.com
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore
Wei Zeng∗
zengwei@stu.scu.edu.cn
Sichuan University
China
Chengwei Liu†
chengwei.liu@nankai.edu.cn
Nankai University
Singapore
Xiaojun Jia
jiaxiaojunqaq@gmail.com
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore
Yijia Xu
xuyijia@scu.edu.cn
Sichuan University
China
Lei Tang
layne.tang@digidations.com
DIGIDATIONS PTE. LTD.
Singapore
Yong Fang
yfang@scu.edu.cn
Sichuan University
China
Yang Liu
yangliu@ntu.edu.sg
Nanyang Technological University
Singapore
Abstract
AI coding agents such as Claude Code and Gemini CLI increas-
ingly extend themselves with third-party skills, markdown pack-
ages that bundle natural-language instructions, executable scripts,
and tool permissions. Because a skill is at once executable code
and agent-facing instruction, it introduces a software supply chain
dependency whose risk is neither pure code nor pure prompt. Detec-
tion tools have never been measured against verified ground truth
that spans this hybrid space, leaving their effectiveness unknown
and wild-only evaluations systematically biased.
We present MalSkillBench, the first runtime-verified bench-
mark of malicious agent skills. It contains 3,944 malicious skills
labeled along a three-dimensional taxonomy spanning 108 (attack
vector, behavior, insertion strategy) cells. Of these, 3,214 come from
a closed-loop Generate-Verify-Feedback pipeline that admits only
samples whose malicious behavior fires inside a Docker sandbox
under system-call monitoring and an LLM judge, with verification
feedback shaping subsequent generation. We complement it with
703 in-the-wild and 4,000 matched benign skills.
Across these measurements, the picture is consistent. (1) Attacks
are unevenly realizable: code injection reaches 94.5% verification
yield but prompt injection only 75.8%, the same fragility that later
makes prompt injection hard to detect. (2) The wild sample is strik-
ingly narrow, dominated by a single cryptocurrency-theft campaign
(86.6% one behavior, 81% from two accounts), with a small but ar-
chitecturally new tail attacking the agent control plane. (3) The
benchmark exposes that the strongest skill-specific detector reaches
98.4% recall on code injection yet collapses on prompt-injection
and agent-control attacks; wild-only scoring swings the ranking
by up to 66 recall points, elevating VirusTotal from near-bottom
to top. (4) Supply-chain scanners and prompt-injection defenses
each see only one half of a skill, and no combination recovers the
relationship between code and instructions. Detecting malicious
skills therefore requires reasoning jointly over task intent, code,
∗These authors contributed equally to this work.
†Corresponding author.
and instructions. We open source the dataset, code, baselines, and
experimental results.
Keywords
AI coding agent, malicious skill, benchmark, code injection, prompt
injection, supply chain security
1
Introduction
AI coding agents such as Claude Code, OpenCode, Cursor, and
Gemini CLI are reshaping software development by autonomously
reading, writing, and executing code on behalf of developers [56].
A central enabler of this autonomy is the skill: a distributable, third-
party software artifact that bundles natural-language instructions,
executable scripts, and tool configurations into a single SKILL.md-
based package [1, 3]. When a user’s request semantically matches a
skill’s description, the agent loads the skill, follows its instructions,
and executes the code it prescribes. In this sense, skills serve as third-
party software dependencies for AI coding agents, analogous to
npm packages for Node.js or extensions for modern IDEs, and have
been adopted as an open standard across major agent platforms [1].
The ecosystem has scaled rapidly: SkillsMP currently hosts over
1.6 million skills [49], ClawHub lists over 64,000 [42], and daily
submissions on major platforms have surged from under 50 to over
500 within weeks [51].
However, this rapid adoption is already being actively exploited.
Recent studies report that over 26% of skills in major marketplaces
contain at least one security-relevant defect [6], and Snyk identified
76 confirmed malicious payloads among 3,984 skills on ClawHub
alone [51]. More recently, Antiy CERT documented a coordinated
poisoning campaign in which attackers uploaded 1,184 malicious
skills disguised as legitimate plugins to the same marketplace [4].
Across these reports and prior work on AI agent attacks, skill
abuse consistently exploits this hybrid nature along two comple-
mentary vectors. Code Injection (CI) embeds executable payloads in
a skill’s scripts or inline code blocks, performing actions such as
data exfiltration, credential theft, or backdoor installation when the
arXiv:2606.07131v2  [cs.CR]  9 Jun 2026

Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
Wenbo Guo, Wei Zeng, Chengwei Liu, Xiaojun Jia, Yijia Xu, Lei Tang, Yong Fang, and Yang Liu
agent runs the code [4, 15, 51]. Prompt Injection (PI) hides manipula-
tive instructions within the skill’s markdown text to alter the agent’s
behavior, bypass safety constraints, or redirect its task [4, 47, 57].
Notably, neither vector emerges in isolation: CI patterns closely mir-
ror those documented in malicious PyPI and npm packages [28, 40],
while PI patterns inherit from jailbreak and social-engineering
techniques developed against general-purpose LLMs. Attackers are
directly transplanting both classes of established attack patterns
into the skill format (we present concrete evidence in Section 2).
Skills thus introduce a new, hybrid attack surface that combines
code-layer and instruction-layer threats within a single artifact.
This makes skill security a software supply chain problem for the
agent era: skills are how agents acquire third-party capability, but
their risk surface, neither pure code nor pure prompt, falls outside
any prior dependency-security or instruction-level defense.
Such threats demand reliable detection, and various skill-specific
detectors have already emerged from both academia and indus-
try. However, the community still cannot determine which tools
actually work, because three compounding gaps block reliable eval-
uation of detector capability. (Gap 1: No public ground truth.)
Industry reports such as Snyk and Antiy publish counts and behav-
ioral summaries but withhold the underlying samples [4, 51]; the
few public academic benchmarks, such as Liu et al.’s wild-collected
dataset [34], total only 157 samples. We supplement this with 703
wild malicious skills collected from public registries and sharing
platforms, yet the cumulative pool remains far below the scale
needed to evaluate detectors systematically. (Gap 2: Existing data
covers a narrow attack surface.) Among the 703 wild samples
we collected, 86.3% concentrate on dependency-impersonation at-
tacks and prompt-injection attacks are nearly absent; Liu et al.’s
dataset exhibits similar concentration [34]. Detectors trained or
evaluated on such skewed data may appear effective against the
dominant attack pattern but cannot be expected to generalize to
the full attack space. (Gap 3: No unified evaluation methodol-
ogy.) Detection tools span multiple paradigms, including rule-based
scanners [19], hybrid static-plus-LLM analyzers [7, 52], LLM-native
prompt scanners [45], and academic detector proposals [6, 22, 47].
Each, however, is evaluated on its own private dataset under its
own metrics, with no shared benchmark covering both CI and PI
vectors for fair comparison. This fragmentation prevents the com-
munity from identifying which approaches generalize and which
are dataset-specific overfitting.
These gaps are not just methodological inconveniences: they
actively distort what the community believes about skill detection.
In our measurements, a single detector’s recall on malicious skills
swings by 66 points depending on which subset is used, enough to
flip an off-the-shelf antivirus aggregator from near the bottom of
the field to the top. To enable measurement that does not behave
this way, we construct MalSkillBench, a runtime-verified bench-
mark and unified evaluation harness built through an automated
Generate-Verify-Feedback closed-loop pipeline. (Addressing Gap 1:
Verified ground truth at scale.) We assemble 3,944 malicious
skills from three complementary sources: 703 wild samples col-
lected from public registries, 3,214 generated samples produced by
our pipeline, and 27 samples curated for tool-compatibility valida-
tion. Each generated sample is loaded by a real coding agent inside
a Docker sandbox instrumented with strace and inotifywait;
only samples whose observed behavior matches their declared
ground-truth indicator enter the dataset. Runtime verification turns
label claims into behavioral evidence, providing the ground truth
that prior data lacked. (Addressing Gap 2: Systematic coverage
via taxonomy and knowledge migration.) We define a three-
dimensional taxonomy spanning attack vector, malicious behavior,
and insertion strategy, yielding 108 cells that span the attack space.
The pipeline mines real-world attack patterns from two external
knowledge bases: a malicious package dataset [16] for CI patterns
and prompt-injection corpora such as WildJailbreak [23] for PI pat-
terns. Each pattern is embedded into a curated pool of legitimate
benign skills spanning 12 categories that serve as camouflage. Cov-
erage is therefore by construction, not by what attackers happened
to publish. (Addressing Gap 3: Unified baseline evaluation.) We
evaluate all 12 detection tools on this benchmark under identical
input formats, configurations, and metrics. The unified evaluation
directly compares coverage across both CI and PI vectors and across
the 108 taxonomy cells, exposing capability gaps that single-dataset
evaluations have obscured.
Equipped with this benchmark, we can address questions about
Skill detection that prior data could not support. We organize our
study around four research questions:
• RQ1 (Attack Realizability): Which regions of the hybrid attack
surface can be reliably realized as working malicious skills, and
which are hard to realize?
• RQ2 (Wild Analysis): What attack patterns dominate real-
world malicious skills, and what agent-native threats do they
reveal beyond traditional supply-chain abuse?
• RQ3 (Skill-Specific Detection): How well do skill-specific de-
tectors perform across both CI and PI attack vectors?
• RQ4 (Tool Transferability): Can supply-chain scanners and
prompt-injection defenders be repurposed to detect malicious
skills?
In summary, this paper makes the following contributions:
• We design a closed-loop Generate-Verify-Feedback pipeline that
migrates real-world attack patterns from external knowledge
bases into the skill format and verifies each generated sample
through sandbox execution with system-call-level behavioral
evidence.
• We release MalSkillBench, the first runtime-verified measure-
ment infrastructure for Skill detection research, labeled along
a three-dimensional taxonomy (attack vector × behavior × in-
sertion strategy, 108 cells) and comprising 3,944 malicious skills
with 4,000 paired benign samples.
• We conduct the first systematic study of the malicious-skill at-
tack surface. Attack realizability is uneven: code injection reaches
94.5% verification yield but prompt injection only 75.8%, a struc-
tural fragility of the PI vector that resurfaces in detection. The
wild sample is dominated by a single pattern, with 86.3% of sam-
ples mounting dependency impersonation, while a small but
architecturally new tail targets the agent’s control plane (session
lifecycle, identity, instruction hierarchy) rather than the host.
• We benchmark 12 detection tools and show that no current ap-
proach is adequate. Skill-specific detectors reach at most 88.6%
F1 with sharp drops on prompt-injection attacks, and wild-only

MalSkillBench: A Runtime-Verified Benchmark of Malicious Agent Skills
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
evaluation is systematically misleading, shifting individual re-
call by up to 66.3 points (VirusTotal). Supply-chain scanners and
prompt-injection defenders transfer poorly: high-recall trans-
fers over-trigger with up to 3,979 false positives on 4,000 benign
samples, and naive combinations cannot reconcile code- and
instruction-level evidence.
2
Motivation
2.1
Limitations of Existing Data
Reliable detector evaluation requires data that spans the attack
space, but current sources do not provide it. We examine the two
natural starting points: the most prominent public benchmark, and
our own wild collection. Even combined, they leave most of the
attack space empirically invisible.
Liu et al.’s wild-collected dataset [34] contains 157 labeled sam-
ples drawn from two platforms. The distribution is highly concen-
trated: 86 samples (55%) come from a single upload of commercial-
brand impersonation skills (e.g., spotify, docusign, linkedin,
apple-music) sharing near-identical attack templates. The remain-
ing samples cluster on Remote Code Execution and Credential Theft,
while pure instruction-layer attacks are rare. At this scale and con-
centration, a detector tuned to Liu’s data cannot claim coverage
across the broader attack space.
We curated 703 in-the-wild malicious skills from public registries
and sharing platforms, but the distribution is similarly narrow. 86.3%
of samples mount a dependency-impersonation attack, declaring a
trusted-looking prerequisite (often a variant of openclaw-agent)
that the agent is induced to install. Prompt-injection attacks are
nearly absent, and the dominant outcome is host-level malware
delivery via the fake dependency; attacks against the agent’s instruc-
tion layer or control plane appear only as low-frequency outliers.
Merging the 157 published samples with our 703 wild skills
does not repair this gap. The combined sample remains dominated
by a single dependency-impersonation pattern, with most of the
attack surface (instruction-layer attacks, agent-control hijacks, full-
camouflage payloads) empirically invisible. We turn next to whether
attack patterns in this domain are structured in a way that allows
systematic expansion of the evidence base.
2.2
Attacks Migrate Into Skills
Across software ecosystems, attackers’ core behaviors (data ex-
filtration, credential theft, backdoor installation, social engineering)
remain largely the same; what changes is the carrier through which
those behaviors are delivered. Package ecosystems and prompt-
injection research have accumulated extensive bodies of docu-
mented attack cases. We observe the same behaviors recurring
in skill abuse, illustrated by two cases (Figure 1): a CI pattern trans-
planted from a malicious PyPI package, and a PI pattern adapted
from phishing-style social engineering against AI agents.
Case 1: Code Injection Migration. The PyPI package pyconau-
funtimes-1.0.6 embeds a reverse shell in setup.py: it opens a
TCP socket to the attacker’s server, redirects standard I/O, and
spawns an interactive shell. The malicious skill math-calculator
contains functionally identical code in scripts/calculate.py,
with only the target address changed. The code structure, system
calls, and attack chain are the same; only the carrier (setup.py
pyconau-funtimes/setup.py PyPI package
math-calculator/scripts/calculate.py agent skill
1
1
import socket, subprocess, os
import socket, subprocess, os
2
2
s = socket.socket(AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM)
s = socket.socket(AF_INET, SOCK_STREAM)
3
3
s.connect(("0.tcp.ngrok.io", 36946))
s.connect(("20.120.229.246", 4444))
4
4
os.dup2(s.fileno(), 0)
os.dup2(s.fileno(), 0)
5
5
os.dup2(s.fileno(), 1)
os.dup2(s.fileno(), 1)
6
6
os.dup2(s.fileno(), 2)
os.dup2(s.fileno(), 2)
7
7
subprocess.call(["/bin/sh", "-i"])
subprocess.call(["/bin/sh", "-i"])
phishing-email.txt phishing email
google-workspace/SKILL.

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Conference’17, July 2017, Washington, DC, USA
Wenbo Guo, Wei Zeng, Chengwei Liu, Xiaojun Jia, Yijia Xu, Lei Tang, Yong Fang, and Yang Liu
References
[1] Agent Skills Community. [n. d.]. Agent Skills: Open Standard for Agent Skill
Files. https://agentskills.io. Accessed: 2026-04-04.
[2] Maksym Andriushchenko, Alexandra Souly, Mateusz Dziemian, Derek Duenas,
Maxwell Lin, Justin Wang, Dan Hendrycks, Andy Zou, Zico Kolter, Matt Fredrik-
son, et al. 2025. Agentharm: A benchmark for measuring harmfulness of llm
agents. In International Conference on Learning Representations, Vol. 2025. 79185–
79220.
[3] Anthropic. [n. d.]. Extend Claude with Skills. https://code.claude.com/docs/en/
skills. Accessed: 2026-04-04.
[4] Antiy CERT. 2026. ClawHavoc: Analysis of a Large-Scale Poisoning Campaign
Against the OpenClaw AI Agent Skill Marketplace. https://www.antiy.com/
response/OpenClaw_AI_Poisoning_Attack_Analysis.html. Accessed: 2026-05-
25.
[5] Andy Arditi, Oscar Obeso, Aaquib Syed, Daniel Paleka, Nina Panickssery, Wes
Gurnee, and Neel Nanda. 2024. Refusal in language models is mediated by a
single direction. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (2024),
136037–136083.
[6] Varun Pratap Bhardwaj. 2026. Formal Analysis and Supply Chain Security for
Agentic AI Skills. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.00195 (2026).
[7] Cisco AI Defense. 2026. Skill Scanner: Security Analysis for Agent Skills. https:
//github.com/cisco-ai-defense/skill-scanner. Accessed: 2026-04-04.
[8] Datadog. 2023. GuardDog: is a CLI tool to Identify malicious PyPI and npm
packages. https://github.com/DataDog/guarddog. Accessed: 2026-04-27.
[9] Edoardo Debenedetti, Jie Zhang, Mislav Balunović, Luca Beurer-Kellner, Marc
Fischer, and Florian Tramèr. 2024. AgentDojo: A Dynamic Environment to
Evaluate Prompt Injection Attacks and Defenses for LLM Agents. In Proc. NeurIPS.
doi:10.48550/arxiv.2406.13352
[10] Xinhao Deng, Yixiang Zhang, Jiaqing Wu, Jiaqi Bai, Sibo Yi, Zhuoheng Zou,
Yue Xiao, Rennai Qiu, Jianan Ma, Jialuo Chen, et al. 2026. Taming openclaw:
Security analysis and mitigation of autonomous llm agent threats. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2603.11619 (2026).
[11] Xingan Gao, Xiaobing Sun, Sicong Cao, Kaifeng Huang, Di Wu, Xiaolei Liu,
Xingwei Lin, and Yang Xiang. 2025. MalGuard: Towards Real-Time, Accurate, and
Actionable Detection of Malicious Packages in PyPI Ecosystem. In 34th USENIX
Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25). USENIX Association, Seattle, WA, 4741–
4758. https://www.usenix.org/conference/usenixsecurity25/presentation/gao-
xingan
[12] GitHub. 2026.
Adding agent skills for GitHub Copilot.
https:
//docs.github.com/en/copilot/how-tos/copilot-on-github/customize-
copilot/customize-cloud-agent/add-skills. Accessed: 2026-04-24.
[13] Google. [n. d.]. Analyse suspicious files, domains, IPs and URLs to detect malware
and other breaches, automatically share them with the security community.
https://www.virustotal.com. Accessed: 2026-04-04.
[14] Kai Greshake, Sahar Abdelnabi, Shailesh Mishra, Christoph Endres, Thorsten
Holz, and Mario Fritz. 2023. Not what you’ve signed up for: Compromising real-
world llm-integrated applications with indirect prompt injection. In Proceedings
of the 16th ACM workshop on artificial intelligence and security. 79–90.
[15] Saidakhror Gulyamov, Andrey Rodionov, Rustam Khursanov, Kambariddin
Mekhmonov, and Djakhongir Babaev. 2026. Prompt Injection Attacks in Large
Language Models and AI Agent Systems: A Comprehensive Review. Information
(2026). doi:10.3390/info17010054
[16] Wenbo Guo, Chengwei Liu, Limin Wang, Yiran Zhang, Jiahui Wu, Zhengzi Xu,
and Yang Liu. 2024. IntelliRadar: A Comprehensive Platform to Pinpoint Malicious
Package Information from Cyber Intelligence. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.15049
(2024).
[17] Zihan Guo, Zhiyu Chen, Xiaohang Nie, Jianghao Lin, Yuanjian Zhou, and Weinan
Zhang. 2026. SkillProbe: Security Auditing for Emerging Agent Skill Marketplaces
via Multi-Agent Collaboration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.21019 (2026).
[18] Haitao Hu, Peng Chen, Yanpeng Zhao, and Yuqi Chen. 2025. Agentsentinel: An
end-to-end and real-time security defense framework for computer-use agents. In
Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications
Security. 3535–3549.
[19] huifer. 2026. Skill Security Scan: skill-security-scan is a command-line tool
designed to scan and detect security risks in Claude Skills. https://github.com/
huifer/skill-security-scan. Accessed: 2026-04-04.
[20] huihui.ai. 2025.
Qwen3.5-abliterated: An Abliteration-Modified Qwen3.5
Model with Refusal Behavior Removed. https://ollama.com/huihui_ai/qwen3.5-
abliterated:35b. Accessed: 2026-04-26.
[21] Kuo-Han Hung, Ching-Yun Ko, Ambrish Rawat, I-Hsin Chung, Winston H Hsu,
and Pin-Yu Chen. 2025. Attention tracker: Detecting prompt injection attacks in
llms. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: NAACL 2025.
2309–2322.
[22] Xiaojun Jia, Jie Liao, Simeng Qin, Jindong Gu, Wenqi Ren, Xiaochun Cao, Yang
Liu, and Philip Torr. 2026. SkillJect: Automating Stealthy Skill-Based Prompt
Injection for Coding Agents with Trace-Driven Closed-Loop Refinement. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2602.14211 (2026).
[23] Liwei Jiang et al. 2024. WildJailbreak: Diverse and Large-Scale Jailbreak Attacks
on LLMs in the Wild. https://huggingface.co/datasets/allenai/wildjailbreak.
[24] Yanna Jiang, Delong Li, Haiyu Deng, Baihe Ma, Xu Wang, Qin Wang, and Guang-
sheng Yu. 2026. SoK: Agentic Skills–Beyond Tool Use in LLM Agents. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2602.20867 (2026).
[25] Chang Jin, An Wang, Zeming Wei, Kai Wang, Biaojie Zeng, Qiaosheng Zhang,
Chao Yang, Jingjing Qu, Xia Hu, and Xingcheng Xu. 2026. SkillSafetyBench:
Evaluating Agent Safety under Skill-Facing Attack Surfaces. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2605.12015 (2026).
[26] Juhee Kim, Xiaoyuan Liu, Zhun Wang, Shi Qiu, Bo Li, Wenbo Guo, and Dawn
Song. 2026. The attack and defense landscape of agentic ai: A comprehensive
survey. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.11088 (2026).
[27] Kurtpayne. 20
