=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR FOR SWE-AGENTS
KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR
FOR SWE-AGENTS
Zonghan Yang#∗†, Shengjie Wang#∗, Kelin Fu¶, Wenyang He§, Weimin Xiong¶,
Yibo Liu, Yibo Miao, Bofei Gao¶, Yejie Wang♢, Yingwei Ma, Yanhao Li, Yue Liu♠,
Zhenxing Hu, Kaitai Zhang¶, Shuyi Wang, Huarong Chen, Flood Sung, Yang Liu#,
Yang Gao#, Zhilin Yang, Tianyu Liu¶†
Moonshot AI, #THU, ¶PKU, §UCAS, ♢BUPT, ♠NUS
GitHub: https://github.com/MoonshotAI/Kimi-Dev
HuggingFace: https://huggingface.co/moonshotai/Kimi-Dev-72B
ABSTRACT
Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly applied to software engineering
(SWE), with SWE-bench as a key benchmark. Solutions are split into SWE-Agent
frameworks with multi-turn interactions and workflow-based Agentless methods
with single-turn verifiable steps. We argue these paradigms are not mutually ex-
clusive: reasoning-intensive Agentless training induces skill priors, including lo-
calization, code edit, and self-reflection that enable efficient and effective SWE-
Agent adaptation. In this work, we first curate the Agentless training recipe and
present Kimi-Dev, an open-source SWE LLM achieving 60.4% on SWE-bench
Verified, the best amon

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR FOR SWE-AGENTS
KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR
FOR SWE-AGENTS
Zonghan Yang#∗†, Shengjie Wang#∗, Kelin Fu¶, Wenyang He§, Weimin Xiong¶,
Yibo Liu, Yibo Miao, Bofei Gao¶, Yejie Wang♢, Yingwei Ma, Yanhao Li, Yue Liu♠,
Zhenxing Hu, Kaitai Zhang¶, Shuyi Wang, Huarong Chen, Flood Sung, Yang Liu#,
Yang Gao#, Zhilin Yang, Tianyu Liu¶†
Moonshot AI, #THU, ¶PKU, §UCAS, ♢BUPT, ♠NUS
GitHub: https://github.com/MoonshotAI/Kimi-Dev
HuggingFace: https://huggingface.co/moonshotai/Kimi-Dev-72B
ABSTRACT
Large Language Models (LLMs) are increasingly applied to software engineering
(SWE), with SWE-bench as a key benchmark. Solutions are split into SWE-Agent
frameworks with multi-turn interactions and workflow-based Agentless methods
with single-turn verifiable steps. We argue these paradigms are not mutually ex-
clusive: reasoning-intensive Agentless training induces skill priors, including lo-
calization, code edit, and self-reflection that enable efficient and effective SWE-
Agent adaptation. In this work, we first curate the Agentless training recipe and
present Kimi-Dev, an open-source SWE LLM achieving 60.4% on SWE-bench
Verified, the best among workflow approaches. With additional SFT adaptation
on 5k publicly-available trajectories, Kimi-Dev powers SWE-Agents to 48.6%
pass@1, on par with that of Claude 3.5 Sonnet (241022 version). These results
show that structured skill priors from Agentless training can bridge workflow and
agentic frameworks for transferable coding agents.
1
INTRODUCTION
Recent days have witnessed the rapid development of Large Language Models (LLMs) automating
Software-Engineering (SWE) tasks (Jimenez et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2024a; Xia et al., 2024; An-
thropic, 2024; Pan et al., 2024; Wang et al., 2025a; Wei et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025a; Kimi et al.,
2025; OpenAI, 2025c). Among the benchmarks that track the progress of LLM coding agents in
SWE scenarios, SWE-bench (Jimenez et al., 2023) stands out as one of the most representative ones:
Given an issue that reports a bug in a real-world GitHub repository, a model is required to produce
a patch that fixes the bug, the correctness of which is further judged by whether the corresponding
unit tests are passed after its application. The difficulty of the task (as of the date the benchmark was
proposed), the existence of the outcome reward with the provided auto-eval harness, as well as the
real-world economic value it reflects, have made the SWE-bench a focal point of the field.
Two lines of solutions have emerged for the SWE-bench task. Agent-based solutions like SWE-
Agent (Yang et al., 2024a) and OpenHands (Wang et al., 2025a) take an interactionist approach:
Instructed with the necessary task description, a predefined set of available tools, as well as the
specific problem statement, the agent is required to interact with an executable environment for
multiple turns, make change to the source codes, and determine when to stop autonomously. In
contrast, workflow-based solutions like Agentless (Xia et al., 2024) pre-define the solving progress
as a pipeline, which consists of steps like localization, bug repair, and test composition. Such task
decomposition transforms the agentic task into generating correct responses for a chain of single-
turn problems with verifiable rewards (Guo et al., 2025; Wei et al., 2025; He et al., 2025).
The two paradigms have been widely viewed as mutually exclusive. On the one hand, SWE-Agents
are born with higher potential and better adaptability, thanks to the higher degree of freedom of the
∗Indicates equal contribution. † Joint leads.
1
arXiv:2509.23045v3  [cs.AI]  8 Dec 2025

KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR FOR SWE-AGENTS
multi-turn interaction without the fixed routines. However, it has also proved more difficult to train
with such frameworks due to their end-to-end nature (Luo et al., 2025; Cao et al., 2025). On the other
hand, Agentless methods offer better modularity and the ease to train with Reinforcement Learning
with Verifiable Rewards (RLVR) techniques, but more limited exploration space and flexibility, and
difficulty in behavior monitoring as the erroneous patterns appear only in the single-turn long rea-
soning contents (Pan et al., 2024). However, we challenge the dichotomy from the perspective of
training recipe: We argue that Agentless training should not be viewed as the ultimate deliverable,
but rather as a way to induce skill priors – atomic capabilities such as the localization of buggy im-
plementations and the update of erroneous code snippets, as well as self-reflection and verification,
all of which help scaffold the efficient adaptation of more capable and generalizable SWE-agents.
Guided by this perspective, we introduce Kimi-Dev, an open-source code LLM for SWE tasks.
Specifically, we first develop an Agentless training recipe, which includes mid-training, cold-start,
reinforcement learning, and test-time self-play. This results in 60.4% accuracy on SWE-bench Ver-
ified, the SoTA performance among the workflow-based solutions. Building on this, we show that
Agentless training induces skill priors: a minimal SFT cold-start from Kimi-Dev with 5k publicly-
available trajectories enables efficient SWE-agent adaptation and reaches 48.6% pass@1 score, sim-
ilar to that of Claude 3.5 Sonnet (the 20241022 version, Anthropic (2024)). We demonstrate that
these induced skills transfer from the non-agentic workflows to the agentic frameworks, and the
self-reflection in long Chain-of-Thoughts baked through Agentless training further enable the agen-
tic model to leverage more turns and succeed with a longer horizon. Finally, we also show that the
skills from Agentless training generalize beyond SWE-bench Verified to broader benchmarks like
SWE-bench-live (Zhang et al., 2025) and SWE-bench Multilingual (Yang et al., 2025c). Together,
these results reframe the relationship between Agentless and agentic frameworks: not mutually ex-
clusive, but as complementary stages in building transferable coding LLMs. This shift offers a prin-
cipled view that training with structural skill priors could scaffold autonomous agentic interaction.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews the background of the frame-
work dichotomy and outlines the challenges of training SWE-Agents. Section 3 presents our Agent-
less training recipe and the experimental results. Section 4 demonstrates how these Agentless-
induced skill priors enable efficient SWE-Agent adaptation, and evaluates the skill transfer and
generalization beyond SWE-bench Verified.
2
BACKGROUND
In this section, we first review the two dominant frameworks for SWE tasks and their dichotomy in
Section 2.1. We then summarize the progress and challenges of training SWE-Agents in Section 2.2.
The background introduction sets the stage for reinterpreting Agentless training as skill priors for
SWE-Agents, a central theme developed throughout the later sections.
2.1
FRAMEWORK DICHOTOMY
Two paradigms currently dominate the solutions for automating software engineering tasks. Agent-
less approaches decompose SWE tasks into modular workflows (Xia et al., 2024; Wei et al., 2025;
Ma et al., 2025a;b; Xie et al., 2025). Typical workflows consist of bug localization, bug repair, and
test generation. This design provides modularity and stability: each step could be optimized sepa-
rately as a single-turn problem with verifiable rewards (Wei et al., 2025; He et al., 2025). However,
such rigidity comes at the cost of flexibility. When encountering scenarios requiring multiple rounds
of incremental updates, the Agentless approaches struggle to adapt.
By contrast, SWE-agents adopt an end-to-end, multi-turn reasoning paradigm (Yang et al., 2024a;
Wang et al., 2025a). Rather than following a fixed workflow, they iteratively plan, act, and reflect,
resembling how human developers debug complex issues. This design enables greater adaptability,
but introduces significant difficulties: trajectories often extend over tens or even hundreds of steps,
context windows of the LLMs must span over the entire interaction history, and the model must
handle exploration, reasoning, and tool use simultaneously.
The dichotomy between fixed workflows (e.g., Agentless) and agentic frameworks (e.g., SWE-
Agent) has shaped much of the community’s perspective. The two paradigms are often regarded
as mutually exclusive: one trades off flexibility and performance ceiling for modularity and stabil-
2

KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR FOR SWE-AGENTS
Figure 1: Agentless framework for Kimi-Dev: the duo of BugFixer and TestWriter.
ity, whereas the other makes the reverse compromise. Our work challenges this dichotomy, as we
demonstrate that Agentless training induces skill priors that make further SWE-agent training both
more stable and more efficient.
2.2
TRAINING SWE-AGENTS
Training SWE-agents relies on acquiring high-quality trajectories through interactions with exe-
cutable environments. Constructing such large-scale environments and collecting reliable trajecto-
ries, however, requires substantial human labor as well as costly calls to frontier models, making data
collection slow and resource-demanding (Pan et al., 2024; Badertdinov et al., 2024b). Recent studies
also attempt to scale environment construction by synthesizing bugs for the reverse construction of
executable runtime (Jain et al., 2025; Yang et al., 2025c).
However, credit assignment across long horizons still remains challenging, as outcome rewards
are sparse and often only available when a final patch passes its tests. Reinforcement learning
techniques have been proposed, but frequently suffer from instability or collapse when trajectories
exceed dozens of steps (Luo et al., 2025; Cao et al., 2025). SWE-agent training is also highly
sensitive to initialization: starting from a generic pre-trained model often leads to brittle behaviors,
such as failing to use tools effectively or getting stuck in infinite loops of specific action patterns (Pan
et al., 2024; Yang et al., 2025c).
These limitations motivate our central hypothesis: instead of training SWE-agents entirely from
scratch, one can first induce skill priors through agentless training, enhancing the atomic capabilities
like localization, repair, test composition, and self-reflection. These priors lay a foundation that
makes subsequent agentic training both more efficient and more generalizable.
3
AGENTLESS TRAINING RECIPE
Instead of training SWE-agents from scratch, we leverage Agentless training to induce skill priors.
Skill priors enhanced by Agentless training include but are not limited to bug localization, patch gen-
eration, self-reflection and verification, which lay the foundation for end-to-end agentic interaction.
In this section, we elaborate our Agentless training recipe: the duo framework design of BugFixer
and TestWriter, mid-training and cold-start, reinforcement learning, and test-time self-play. Sec-
tions 3.1–3.4 detail these ingredients, and Section 3.5 presents the experimental results for each of
them. This training recipe results in Kimi-Dev, an open-source 72B model that achieves 60.4% on
SWE-bench Verified, the SoTA performance among the workflow-based solutions.
3.1
FRAMEWORK: THE DUO OF BUGFIXER AND TESTWRITER
In GitHub issue resolution, we conceptualize the process as the collaboration between two important
roles: the BugFixer, who produces patches that correctly address software bugs, and the TestWriter,
who creates reproducible unit tests that capture the reported bug. A resolution is considered suc-
cessful when the BugFixer’s patch passes the tests provided for the issue, while a high-quality test
from the TestWriter should fail on the pre-fix version of the code and pass once the fix is applied.
Each role relies on two core skills: (i) file localization, the ability to identify the specific files relevant
to the bug or test, and (ii) code edit, the ability to implement the necessary modifications. For Bug-
Fixer, effective code edits repair the defective program logic, whereas for TestWriter, they update
precise unit test functions that reproduce the issue into the test files. As illustrated in Figure 1, these
two skills constitute the fundamental abilities underlying GitHub issue resolution. Thus, we enhance
these skills through the following training recipes, including mid-training, cold-start, and RL.
3

KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR FOR SWE-AGENTS
3.2
MID-TRAINING & COLD START
To enhance the model’s prior as both a BugFixer and a TestWriter, we perform mid-training with
∼150B tokens in high-quality and real-world data. With the Qwen 2.5-72B-Base (Qwen et al.,
2024) model as a starting point, we collect millions of GitHub issues and PR commits to form its
mid-training dataset, which consists of (i) ∼50B tokens in the form of Agentless derived from the
natural diff patch, (ii) ∼20B tokens of curated PR commit packs, and (iii) ∼20B tokens of synthetic
data with reasoning and agentic interaction patterns (upsampled by a factor of 4 during training).
The data recipe is carefully constructed to enable the model to learn how human developers reason
with GitHub issues, implement code fixes, and develop unit tests. We also performed strict data
decontamination to exclude any repository from the SWE-bench Verified test set. Mid-training
sufficiently enhances the knowledge in the model about practical bug fixes and unit tests, making it
a better starting point for later stages. The details of the recipe are covered in Appendix A.
To activate the model’s long Chain-of-Thought (CoT) capability, we also construct a cold-start
dataset with reasoning trajectories based on the SWE-Gym (Pan et al., 2024) and SWE-bench-extra
(Badertdinov et al., 2024a) datasets, generated by the DeepSeek R1 model (Luo et al. (2025), the
20250120 version). In this setup, R1 acts the roles of Bugfixer and Testwriter, producing out-
puts such as file localization and code edits. Through supervised finetuning as a cold start with
this dataset, we enable the model to acquire essential reasoning skills, including problem analysis,
method sketching, self-refinement, and exploration of alternative solutions.
3.3
REINFORCEMENT LEARNING
After mid-training and cold-start, the model demonstrates strong performance in localization.
Therefore, reinforcement learning (RL) focuses solely on the code edit stage.
We construct a
training set specifically for this stage, where each prompt is equipped with an executable environ-
ment. We further employ multiple localization rollouts from the initial model to generate varied file
location predictions, which diversifies the prompts used in code-edit RL.
For the RL algorithm, we adopt the policy optimization method proposed by Kimi k1.5 (Team
et al., 2025), which has shown promising results on reasoning tasks in both math and coding. Kimi
k1.5 (Team et al., 2025) adopts a simpler policy gradient approach based on the REINFORCE al-
gorithm (Williams, 1992). Similarly to GRPO (Shao et al., 2024), we use the average rewards of
multiple rollouts as the baseline to normalize the returns. When adapting the algorithm in our SWE-
bench setting, we highlight the following 3 key desiderata:
1. Outcome-based reward only: We rely solely on the final execution outcome from the
environment as the raw reward (0 or 1), without incorporating any format- or process-
based signals. For BugFixer, a positive reward is given if the generated patch passes all
ground-truth unittests. For TestWriter, a positive reward is assigned when (i) the predicted
test raises a failure in the repo without the ground-truth bugfix patch applied, AND (ii) the
failure is resolved once the ground-truth bugfix patch is applied.
2. Adaptive prompt selection: Prompts with pass@16 = 0 are initially discarded as they do
not contribute to the batch loss. This results in an i

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR FOR SWE-AGENTS
Now, I can submit the changes.
<function=submit>
</function>
Listing 21: The interaction made by the RL prior with 221 SWE-Agent SFT tokens and end-to-end
SWE-Agent RL on matplotlib matplotlib-13989.
It can be seen that the two types of patterns are significantly different from each other:
• The patterns of the heavy SFT model appear to be more regulated, with explicitly labeled
steps 1 to 5 along the intermediate reasoning process. The reasoning content is generally
short as well. This reflects the behavior of the model shaped by the heavy SFT data from
the proprietary models.
• The patterns of the light SFT + end-to-end RL model, in contrast, are much more under-
regulated. More turns of interaction are spent at repo exploration, and a significantly larger
amount of tokens are generated at the code edit steps before the action is made. This is the
reflection behavior shaped by end-to-end RL (and less impacted by the expert data), as the
sign of reasoning-intensive skill priors is retained in the agentic scenario.
G.4
GENERALIZATION TO OTHER TASKS
In this section, we study whether the skills incentivized by Agentless training and SWE-Agent adap-
tation through SWE-Smith trajectories could transfer to other SWE tasks. We use SWE-bench-live
and SWE-bench Multilingual as our testbeds.
SWE-bench-live (Zhang et al., 2025) is a benchmark for real-world issue resolution, evaluating AI
systems on software engineering tasks. Using an automated curation pipeline, it is updated monthly
to ensure fresh tasks and rigorous, contamination-free evaluation. For our experiments, we selected
the default set of 300 tasks, with data collected between October 2024 and March 2025. Compared
to SWE-bench Verified, SWE-bench-live exhibits a higher degree of distributional shift.
SWE-bench Multilingual (Yang et al., 2025c) introduces 300 curated tasks from 42 GitHub repos-
itories across 9 programming languages, including Rust, Java, PHP, Ruby, JavaScript/TypeScript,
Go, and C/C++, covering domains such as web frameworks, data tools, core utilities, and libraries.
Compared to SWE-bench Verified, which focuses exclusively on Python, SWE-bench Multilingual
exhibits greater linguistic and domain diversity, posing additional challenges in cross-language gen-
eralization and transferability of software engineering capabilities.
Similar to previous experiments, we evaluated four model stages as the priors: the original Qwen2.5-
72B (Base), the mid-trained model (MT), the model activated with reasoning data through super-
vised finetuning (SFT), and the model after RL training (RL). We still use the open-source SWE-
smith trajectories to activate the agentic capabilities of each prior.
Figures 11 and 12 show the performance of the four priors on SWE-bench-Live and SWE-bench
Multilingual under varied amounts of agentic trajectories for adaptation (221 as one-step gradient
descent, 223, 1.1 × 227, and 1.5 × 228 as 100, 2,000, and 5,016 training trajectories). Each SWE-
Agent adaptation experiment is conducted through lightweight supervised finetuning, the training
time of which ranges from several minutes to two hours at most.
Compared to the Base prior, those specifically enhanced with Agentless skills (SFT and RL) demon-
strate stronger task generalization, especially under the data-scarce settings. However, when more
SWE-Smith trajectories are used for adaptation, the performances of the Base and the MT priors
become closer to those of the SFT and the RL priors. This could be attributed to the gaps between
the different SWE tasks. The exploration for recipes that enable stronger out-of-distribution and
task-agnostic generalization is left for future work.
67

KIMI-DEV: AGENTLESS TRAINING AS SKILL PRIOR FOR SWE-AGENTS
(a) #SFT = 221.
(b) #SFT = 223.
(c) #SFT = 1.1 × 227.
(d) #SFT = 1.5 × 228.
Figure 11: Generalization analysis on SWE-bench-Live.
(a) #SFT = 221.
(b) #SFT = 223.
(c) #SFT = 1.1 × 227.
(d) #SFT = 1.5 × 228.
Figure 12: Generalization analysis on SWE-bench Multilingual.
H
USE OF LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS
The initial draft of this paper was written entirely by the authors. A large language model (gpt-
5) was used only to aid with polishing the language (e.g., grammar and clarity). All conceptual
contributions, experimental designs, analyses, and conclusions are the work of the authors.
68

