=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
Organizing, Orchestrating, and Benchmarking Agent Skills
at Ecosystem Scale
Hao Li∗Chunjiang Mu∗Jianhao Chen
Siyue Ren
Zhiyao Cui
Yiqun Zhang
Lei Bai
Shuyue Hu†
Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
Abstract
The rapid proliferation of Claude agent skills has raised the central question of how to
effectively leverage, manage, and scale the agent skill ecosystem. In this paper, we propose
AgentSkillOS, the first principled framework for skill selection, orchestration, and ecosystem-
level management. AgentSkillOS comprises two stages: (i) Manage Skills, which organizes
skills into a capability tree via node-level recursive categorization for efficient discovery;
and (ii) Solve Tasks, which retrieves, orchestrates, and executes multiple skills through
DAG-based pipelines.
To evaluate the agent’s ability to invoke skills, we construct a
benchmark of 30 artifact-rich tasks across five categories: data computation, document
creation, motion video, visual design, and web interaction. We assess the quality of task
outputs using LLM-based pairwise evaluation, and the results are aggregated via a Bradley–
Terry model to produce unified quality scores. Experiments across three skill eco

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
Organizing, Orchestrating, and Benchmarking Agent Skills
at Ecosystem Scale
Hao Li∗Chunjiang Mu∗Jianhao Chen
Siyue Ren
Zhiyao Cui
Yiqun Zhang
Lei Bai
Shuyue Hu†
Shanghai Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
Abstract
The rapid proliferation of Claude agent skills has raised the central question of how to
effectively leverage, manage, and scale the agent skill ecosystem. In this paper, we propose
AgentSkillOS, the first principled framework for skill selection, orchestration, and ecosystem-
level management. AgentSkillOS comprises two stages: (i) Manage Skills, which organizes
skills into a capability tree via node-level recursive categorization for efficient discovery;
and (ii) Solve Tasks, which retrieves, orchestrates, and executes multiple skills through
DAG-based pipelines.
To evaluate the agent’s ability to invoke skills, we construct a
benchmark of 30 artifact-rich tasks across five categories: data computation, document
creation, motion video, visual design, and web interaction. We assess the quality of task
outputs using LLM-based pairwise evaluation, and the results are aggregated via a Bradley–
Terry model to produce unified quality scores. Experiments across three skill ecosystem
scales (200 to 200K skills) show that tree-based retrieval effectively approximates oracle
skill selection, and that DAG-based orchestration substantially outperforms native flat
invocation even when given the identical skill set. Our findings confirm that structured
composition is the key to unlocking skill potential. Our GitHub repository is available at:
https://github.com/ynulihao/AgentSkillOS.
1
Introduction
The agent skill ecosystem is rapidly expanding (Ling et al., 2026). Introduced by Claude in October 2025,
a skill is a markdown file that defines a structured folder comprising declarative instructions, executable
scripts, and auxiliary resources (Anthropic, 2025). By supporting dynamic loading and execution at runtime,
skills enable a large language model (LLM) to acquire domain-specific knowledge and extend its operational
capabilities (Xu & Yan, 2026). Skills have been adopted by multiple model service providers and integrated
into platforms such as Coze, enabling cross-model skill reuse and execution. As of late Feb 2026, more
than 280,000 skills are publicly available,1 and the overwhelming majority is developed and maintained
by decentralized, third-party contributors. At this scale and degree of decentralization, a critical question
emerges: how can the agent skill ecosystem be effectively leveraged, managed, and scaled?
This question is of both practical importance and research interest. From a user perspective, the sheer
number of available skills makes it difficult to obtain a global view of the ecosystem. Users often lack visibility
into what skills exist, what capabilities they expose, and how they differ from or overlap with one another,
making targeted skill selection for specific tasks challenging. From a platform provider perspective, a rapidly
expanding, largely third-party ecosystem creates major governance challenges, especially around quality
and reliability (Liu et al., 2026; Schmotz et al., 2025). More fundamentally, as the ecosystem scales, skills
increasingly become fragmented and isolated contributions; without explicit mechanisms for composition and
coordination, many skills remain underused, and the ecosystem fails to deliver its key value: orchestrating
multiple skills to solve tasks beyond any single skill (Li, 2026).
∗Equal contribution
†Corresponding author. Email: hushuyue@pjlab.org.cn.
1https://skillsmp.com/
1
arXiv:2603.02176v1  [cs.CL]  2 Mar 2026

In this paper, we introduce AgentSkillOS, the first principled framework for skill selection, orchestration,
and ecosystem-level management. It consists of two stages: Manage Skills and Solve Tasks. In the
Manage Skills stage, we construct a capability tree that organizes skills into a hierarchy based on their
capabilities. Specifically, starting from the root node, AgentSkillOS organizes skills into a node-level hierarchy
by recursively partitioning each node’s skill set into category groups, splitting any category node that
exceeds a per-node capacity threshold until all nodes conform to the limit. We note that the construction of
a capability tree is essential. It surfaces non-obvious yet functionally relevant skills, thereby enabling broader
and more creative skill discovery than pure semantic retrieval. In the Solve Tasks stage, AgentSkillOS builds
on the capability tree to retrieve and orchestrate multiple skills, equipping a task-specific agent to solve tasks
beyond any single skill. This stage comprises three steps: (i) Task-driven Skill Retrieval, which explores
the capability tree to retrieve a broad set of relevant skills and then prunes them via filtering, deduplication,
and relevance ranking; (ii) DAG-based Skill Orchestration, which decomposes the task into subtasks
and composes the selected skills into Directed-Acyclic-Graph (DAG) plans, offering three different strategies
for orchestration; and (iii) Multi-skill Task Execution, which executes the selected DAG, automatically
managing execution order, dependencies, and data flow across steps.
To systematically evaluate AgentSkillOS, we construct a benchmark of 30 tasks across five categories: data
computation, document creation, motion video, visual design, and web interaction. All tasks are constructed
by human experts who first curate high-quality skills from public marketplaces and GitHub repositories, then
craft task descriptions and deliverable requirements based on these skills and real-world user needs, either from
a single skill or by cross-composing multiple skills. The benchmark features three key properties tailored for
skill evaluation: (i) Multi-format Creative Tasks: each task requires delivering a complete, end-user-facing
artifact, going beyond code generation or question answering to test real-world delivery quality; (ii) Pairwise
Comparison with Position-bias Mitigation: we evaluate via LLM-based pairwise judging conducted in
both orderings to counteract position bias, and aggregate preferences via a Bradley–Terry model (Bradley &
Terry, 1952) for fine-grained ranking; and (iii) High Skill-discriminability: by grounding tasks in specific
skills, task quality depends critically on whether the agent correctly selects and invokes the relevant skills,
clearly surfacing differences in skill configuration.
We evaluate different configurations across three skill ecosystem sizes (200, 1K, 200K). Results show that our
AgentSkillOS consistently achieves the highest scores across all ecosystem sizes, substantially outperforming
both the vanilla Claude Code skill invocation and the skill-free baseline. Notably, our ablation study reveals
that DAG-based skill orchestration is a critical contributor to performance: even when provided with the
identical oracle skill set, the vanilla Claude Code agent, which invokes skills in a flat, unstructured manner,
performs significantly worse than AgentSkillOS with DAG orchestration. This demonstrates that structured
skill composition, not merely skill availability, is the key to unlocking the full potential of the skill ecosystem.
The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
• We propose AgentSkillOS, the first principled framework comprising capability-tree-based skill
organization and DAG-based multi-skill orchestration, for efficiently leveraging, managing, and
scaling agent skill ecosystems.
• We construct a benchmark of 30 artifact-rich tasks across five categories with an LLM-based pairwise
evaluation protocol aggregated via a Bradley–Terry model for fine-grained quality assessment.
• Through comprehensive experiments across three ecosystem scales (200 to 200K skills), we demon-
strate that tree-based retrieval effectively approximates oracle skill selection, and that DAG-based
orchestration substantially outperforms native flat skill invocation even when given the oracle skill
set.
2
Method
In this section, we present AgentSkillOS, the first principled framework for efficiently selecting, orchestrating,
and managing skills from a large-scale ecosystem to solve a user-specified task. AgentSkillOS comprises
two stages: (i) Manage Skills, which organizes a large-scale skill ecosystem into a capability tree to
2

Skill Ecosystem
Skills Management
Skill Retrieval & Orchestration
Multi-skill Execution
TopK +
User Selected
Capability Tree Construcion
Usage-frequency
Queue
Root 
Content
Creation
Data
Processing
Software
Development Automation
Domain-
specific
User Task
Task-specific Agent
Task-Driven Retrieval
Group Discovery 
& Skill Assignment
Skill Orchestration Graph (DAG)
Qulaity-First
Simplicity-First
Efficiency-First
Layer 1
Layer 3
Layer 2
(Parallel)
...
Layered DAG Execution 
Prompt
(for each node)
Environment
pdf
image
frontend
pptx
social-media
Task-Driven
Retrieval
Capability Tree
Deduplication &
Ranking
Help me promote my paper
Artifacts
Summary
- Task
- SubTask
- Skill
- Upstream 
   Artifacts
- Expected 
   Outputs
Task Solution
Recipe Pool
...
...
Figure 1: AgentSkillOS is a principled framework for efficient skill retrieval, orchestration, and ecosystem-level
management to solve user-specified tasks.
enable efficient use of available skills prior to task execution; and (ii) Solve Tasks, which automatically
selects, orchestrates, and executes multiple skills during task execution. Fig. 1 shows the overall workflow of
AgentSkillOS.
2.1
Manage Skills: Capability Tree Construction
To enable efficient retrieval of required skills from a large-scale skill ecosystem, we organize the skill ecosystem
using a tree structure. We refer to this tree as the capability tree, which is constructed and updated offline,
independent of the task execution process. Formally, we denote skill ecosystem to be managed by S, and
the capability tree by T. Each node n ∈T corresponds to a skill partition and is assigned a specific subset
of skills Sn ⊆ST , where ST is the set of all skills used to construct the capability tree T. Therefore, for
the root node r, it holds that Sr = ST . For node n with children ch(n), the node’s children c ∈ch(n) form
a partition of Sn which satisfies Sn = S
c∈ch(n) Sc and Sc ∩Sc′ = ∅for any c ̸= c′. From high-level nodes
to low-level nodes of this capability tree, the skill number of each level of nodes decreases approximately
exponentially. Ultimately, each leaf node in the capability tree corresponds to a skill partition containing
exactly one skill. This structure of our capability tree supports coarse-to-fine, level-by-level localization:
agents can first identify relevant top-level capability domains and then search within the corresponding node
partitions, avoiding unguided retrieval over ST . It is worth noting that ST is not necessarily equal to the
entire skill ecosystem, which we denote as S. In the following subsections, we first describe how the capability
tree is constructed and updated through node-level recursive categorization over ST . We further introduce a
usage-frequency queue to select ST from S to control the tree size and reduce the inclusion of low-quality
skills when S becomes excessively large.
2.1.1
Node-Level Recursive Categorization
Prior to capability tree construction, AgentSkillOS scans ST and extracts name and description of each skill
as the basis for subsequent partition. Then, starting from the root node, AgentSkillOS adopts a breadth-first
strategy to generate child nodes for each node, thereby building the capability tree T level by level. The
child nodes are generated by partitioning the skill sets of the current node, which consists of two steps:
3

Group Discovery and Skill Assignment. Given the current node n and its assigned skill set Sn, during Group
Discovery, AgentSkillOS employs an LLM to generate a specific number of category groups for Sn, including
the name and description of each category. The target number of groups is guided by a branching factor
B. In Skill Assignment, AgentSkillOS employs an LLM to assign each skill in Sn to one of the generated
categorie groups. By splitting children generation into two steps, AgentSkillOS greatly reduces the probability
of missing skills during tree construction.
AgentSkillOS performs additional handling for three special cases. (i) If the current node is the root node,
to ensure stable and reliable classification, five fixed category groups are manually specified in the Group
Discovery: content creation, data processing, software development, automation, and domain-specific. (ii) If
the number of skills in any generated category after Skill Assignment is equal to 1, that category and all
its skills will be merged into the most relevant target category, and the name and description of the target
category will be updated. If the number of skills in a category is below the per-node capacity threshold C but
greater than or equal to 2, all skills in that category are converted into leaf nodes, and no further child nodes
of them will be generated. By ensuring that each node is assigned a sufficient number of skills, AgentSkillOS
reduces the depth of the capability tree and accelerating skill retrieval. (iii) If some skills are not assigned to
any category because of LLM hallucination or other bugs, these skills will be reassigned. If they still have no
category after the second Skill Assignment, they will be assigned to the category with the largest number of
skills. Ultimately, each node in the capability tree corresponds to a category of skills, while each leaf node
represents an individual skill.
The capability tree will be updated if S changes. The newly introduced skills are incorporated into the
capability tree as follows. Starting from the root node, each new skill is progressively assigned to the most
appropriate category at each level, forming a path down the tree and ultimately being inserted as a new leaf
node at the proper position. After insertion, we perform a bottom-up update along the constructed path to
refine the category names and descriptions of the affected nodes. Overall, our tree construction and update
method achieves a balance between skill classification accuracy and retrieval efficiency.
2.1.2
Usage-Frequency Queue for Skill Selection for Tree-construction
We control the depth of the tree by selecting only the skills that satisfy specific criteria from S to construct the
capability tree, when the number of skills in S is above the threshold K. To select ST , AgentSkillOS maintains
a usage-frequency queue Q that ranks s ∈S by a frequency score f(s), which we set as the install count of
skill s on the marketplace2. Then, ST is selected to construct the tree by ST = TopK(Q, K) ∪Suser, where
Suser denotes the skills manually selected by the user from the S. This design enables users to conveniently
incorporate their own custom and private skills. We place the remaining skills S \ ST into a dormant index
that supports semantic suggestions. Specifically, we build a vector index over dormant-skill metadata (name
and description) and retrieve suggestions by embedding similarity. If a suggested dormant skill proves useful
during task solving, AgentSkillOS allows users to add it to Suser and trigger the tree update.
2.2
Solve Tasks: a Task-Specific Agent with Multiple Skills
Building on the capability tree of skills, AgentSkillOS retrieves and orchestrates multiple skills to equip a
task-specific agent, enabling it to solve tasks beyond the reach of any single skill and improving overall skill
utilization. The key to constructing a task-specific agent lies in generating and executing a skill orchestration
graph for the given task, formulated as a Directed Acyclic Graph (DAG). We denote it by G = (V, E), where
each node v ∈V denotes a skill in the capability tree and is selected to solve the task, and each directed
edge (u, v) ∈E indicates that skill v depends on the outputs o

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Carlos E Jimenez, John Yang, Alexander Wettig, Shunyu Yao, Kexin Pei, Ofir Press, and Karthik Narasimhan.
Swe-bench: Can language models resolve real-world github issues? In 12th International Conference on
Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, 2024.
Patrick Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Piktus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman Goyal, Heinrich
Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih, Tim Rocktäschel, et al. Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-
intensive nlp tasks. Advances in neural information processing systems, 33:9459–9474, 2020.
Minghao Li, Yingxiu Zhao, Bowen Yu, Feifan Song, Hangyu Li, Haiyang Yu, Zhoujun Li, Fei Huang, and
Yongbin Li. Api-bank: A comprehensive benchmark for tool-augmented llms. In Proceedings of the 2023
conference on empirical methods in natural language processing, pp. 3102–3116, 2023.
Xiangyi Li, Wenbo Chen, Yimin Liu, Shenghan Zheng, Xiaokun Chen, Yifeng He, Yubo Li, Bingran You,
Haotian Shen, Jiankai Sun, et al. Skillsbench: Benchmarking how well agent skills work across diverse
tasks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.12670, 2026.
Xiaoxiao Li. When single-agent with skills replace multi-agent systems and when they fail. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2601.04748, 2026.
George Ling, Shanshan Zhong, and Richard Huang. Agent skills: A data-driven analysis of claude skills for
extending large language model functionality. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.08004, 2026.
Xiao Liu, Hao Yu, Hanchen Zhang, Yifan Xu, Xuanyu Lei, Hanyu Lai, Yu Gu, Hangliang Ding, Kaiwen Men,
Kejuan Yang, et al. Agentbench: Evaluating llms as agents. In 12th International Conference on Learning
Representations, ICLR 2024, 2024.
Yi Liu, Zhihao Chen, Yanjun Zhang, Gelei Deng, Yuekang Li, Jianting Ning, and Leo Yu Zhang. Malicious
agent skills in the wild: A large-scale security empirical study. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.06547, 2026.
Grégoire Mialon, Clémentine Fourrier, Thomas Wolf, Yann LeCun, and Thomas Scialom. Gaia: a benchmark
for general ai assistants. In 12th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, 2024.
Shishir G Patil, Tianjun Zhang, Xin Wang, and Joseph E Gonzalez. Gorilla: Large language model connected
with massive apis. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:126544–126565, 2024.
Yujia Qin, Shengding Hu, Yankai Lin, Weize Chen, Ning Ding, Ganqu Cui, Zheni Zeng, Xuanhe Zhou, Yufei
Huang, Chaojun Xiao, et al. Tool learning with foundation models. ACM Computing Surveys, 57(4):1–40,
2024a.
Yujia Qin, Shihao Liang, Yining Ye, Kunlun Zhu, Lan Yan, Yaxi Lu, Yankai Lin, Xin Cong, Xiangru Tang,
Bill Qian, et al. Toolllm: Facilitating large language models to master 16000+ real-world apis. In 12th
International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, 2024b.
Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Eric Hambro, Luke
Zettlemoyer, Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves
to use tools. Advances in neural information processing systems, 36:68539–68551, 2023.
David Schmotz, Sahar Abdelnabi, and Maksym Andriushchenko. Agent skills enable a new class of realistic
and trivially simple prompt injections. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.26328, 2025.
Yongliang Shen, Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Dongsheng Li, Weiming Lu, and Yueting Zhuang. Hugginggpt: Solving
ai tasks with chatgpt and its friends in hugging face. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems,
36:38154–38180, 2023.
Yongliang Shen, Kaitao Song, Xu Tan, Wenqi Zhang, Kan Ren, Siyu Yuan, Weiming Lu, Dongsheng Li,
and Yueting Zhuang. Taskbench: Benchmarking large language models for task automation. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:4540–4574, 2024.
Xingyao Wang, Yangyi Chen, Lifan Yuan, Yizhe Zhang, Yunzhu Li, Hao Peng, and Heng Ji. Executable code
actions elicit better llm agents. In Forty-first International Conference on Machine Learning, 2024.
14

Tianbao Xie, Danyang Zhang, Jixuan Chen, Xiaochuan Li, Siheng Zhao, Ruisheng Cao, Toh J Hua, Zhoujun
Cheng, Dongchan Shin, Fangyu Lei, et al. Osworld: Benchmarking multimodal agents for open-ended tasks
in real computer environments. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 37:52040–52094, 2024.
Frank F Xu, Yufan Song, Boxuan Li, Yuxuan Tang, Kritanjali Jain, Mengxue Bao, Zora Zhiruo Wang, Xuhui
Zhou, Zhitong Guo, Murong Cao, et al. Theagentcompany: Benchmarking llm agents on consequential real
world tasks. In The Thirty-ninth Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems Datasets
and Benchmarks Track, 2024.
Renjun Xu and Yang Yan. Agent skills for large language models: Architecture, acquisition, security, and the
path forward. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.12430, 2026.
Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik R Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. React:
Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. In The eleventh international conference on learning
representations, 2022.
Shuyan Zhou, Frank F Xu, Hao Zhu, Xuhui Zhou, Robert Lo, Abishek Sridhar, Xianyi Cheng, Tianyue Ou,
Yonatan Bisk, Daniel Fried, et al. Webarena: A realistic web environment for building autonomous agents.
In 12th International Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2024, 2024.
15

