=== PDF FIRST PAGE (title region) ===
Reinforcement Learning for Self-Improving Agent with Skill Library
Jiongxiao Wang1*
Qiaojing Yan2
Yawei Wang2
Yijun Tian2
Soumya Smruti Mishra2
Zhichao Xu2
Megha Gandhi2
Panpan Xu2†
Lin Lee Cheong2
1University of Wisconsin–Madison; 2AWS Agentic AI
jwang2929@wisc.edu; {qiaojiny, yawenwan, yijunt, soumish, xzhichao, ganmegha, xupanpan, lcheong}@amazon.com
Abstract
Large Language Model (LLM)-based agents
have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in
complex reasoning and multi-turn interactions
but struggle to continuously improve and adapt
when deployed in new environments.
One
promising approach is implementing skill li-
braries that allow agents to learn, validate, and
apply new skills. However, current skill library
approaches rely primarily on LLM prompting,
making consistent skill library implementation
challenging. To overcome these challenges, we
propose a Reinforcement Learning (RL)-based
approach to enhance agents’ self-improvement
capabilities with a skill library. Specifically,
we introduce Skill Augmented GRPO for self-
Evolution (SAGE), a novel RL framework that
systematically incorporates skills into learn-
ing. The framework’s key component, Sequen-
tial Rollout, iterat

=== FRONT MATTER (abstract/intro/method, first 7 pages) ===
Reinforcement Learning for Self-Improving Agent with Skill Library
Jiongxiao Wang1*
Qiaojing Yan2
Yawei Wang2
Yijun Tian2
Soumya Smruti Mishra2
Zhichao Xu2
Megha Gandhi2
Panpan Xu2†
Lin Lee Cheong2
1University of Wisconsin–Madison; 2AWS Agentic AI
jwang2929@wisc.edu; {qiaojiny, yawenwan, yijunt, soumish, xzhichao, ganmegha, xupanpan, lcheong}@amazon.com
Abstract
Large Language Model (LLM)-based agents
have demonstrated remarkable capabilities in
complex reasoning and multi-turn interactions
but struggle to continuously improve and adapt
when deployed in new environments.
One
promising approach is implementing skill li-
braries that allow agents to learn, validate, and
apply new skills. However, current skill library
approaches rely primarily on LLM prompting,
making consistent skill library implementation
challenging. To overcome these challenges, we
propose a Reinforcement Learning (RL)-based
approach to enhance agents’ self-improvement
capabilities with a skill library. Specifically,
we introduce Skill Augmented GRPO for self-
Evolution (SAGE), a novel RL framework that
systematically incorporates skills into learn-
ing. The framework’s key component, Sequen-
tial Rollout, iteratively deploys agents across
a chain of similar tasks for each rollout. As
agents navigate through the task chain, skills
generated from previous tasks accumulate in
the library and become available for subse-
quent tasks. Additionally, the framework en-
hances skill generation and utilization through
a Skill-integrated Reward that complements
the original outcome-based rewards. Experi-
mental results on AppWorld demonstrate that
SAGE, when applied to supervised-finetuned
model with expert experience, achieves 8.9%
higher Scenario Goal Completion while re-
quiring 26% fewer interaction steps and gen-
erating 59% fewer tokens, substantially out-
performing existing approaches in both accu-
racy and efficiency. Our code is available at
https://github.com/amazon-science/SAGE.
1
Introduction
Large language model (LLM)-based agents have
been widely applied to automate complex tasks
*Work was done during an internship at AWS Agentic AI.
†Corresponding author: Panpan Xu, Email: xupanpan@
amazon.com
through active environmental interactions, includ-
ing coding agent (Yang et al., 2024; Novikov et al.,
2025), deep research (OpenAI, 2025), assistant
agent (Yao et al., 2024; Chen et al., 2025), and
web browsing (Yao et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2024).
To enhance the performance of these multi-turn in-
teractive agents, researchers have successfully inte-
grated reinforcement learning (RL) techniques into
their frameworks (Chen et al., 2025; Qi et al., 2025;
Zhou et al., 2025a; Wang et al., 2025a). Recent
advances, particularly in reinforcement learning
with verifiable rewards (RLVR) (Shao et al., 2024;
Guo et al., 2025), have enabled effective end-to-end
agent training for improved performance (Jin et al.,
2025). However, despite RL’s effectiveness, sig-
nificant limitations persist: RL-trained agents are
often limited to specific training scenarios (Zheng
et al., 2024a; Li et al., 2024). When deployed in
new environments, they struggle to demonstrate
continual learning capabilities to effectively utilize
valuable on-going experiences for future tasks.
To address these limitations, one potential solu-
tion is enabling agents to transform their previous
interaction experiences into reusable skills, which
can be stored in a skill library for future reference.
When agents encounter similar tasks, these pre-
viously acquired skills can be leveraged through
experience replay to improve task success rates,
particularly in scenarios that were not encountered
during training but experienced during deployment.
Furthermore, since each skill is composed of a list
of actions, utilization of these skills can enhance
agent efficiency by condensing complex action se-
quences into reusable operations.
Recent research has made significant strides in
enabling agents to compose reusable skills (Wang
et al., 2024a; Cai et al., 2024; Nguyen et al., 2024;
Wang et al., 2024c; Zheng et al., 2025; Wang et al.,
2025b). For instance, Wang et al. (2025b) focuses
on inducing high-level web browsing skills from
successful action trajectories, transforming primi-
1
arXiv:2512.17102v2  [cs.AI]  10 Mar 2026

Figure 1: Illustration for Skill Library Agent and Sequential Rollout with Skill-integrated Reward.
tive actions like click and search into more complex
operations such as search product. While these
works have demonstrated the effectiveness of skill
libraries for deployed agents, they predominantly
rely on manually crafted prompts for skill genera-
tion and utilization. This prompt-based approach,
however, is inherently constrained by the instruc-
tion following capabilities of the base model, lim-
iting both the quality and adaptability of the skill
library.
In this paper, we explore enhancing agents’ self-
improvement capabilities through RL with a skill
library. Given the diverse frameworks of agents for
various tasks, we focus specifically on tool-using
agents that interact with environments through API
calls and receive corresponding feedback. Our
implementation extends the CodeAct framework
(Wang et al., 2024b), which enables agents to com-
pose code by combining multiple APIs with ba-
sic programming constructs (such as for loops)
to solve complex tasks. Building upon this foun-
dation, we develop a specialized framework for
self-improving agents with skill library (referred
to as skill library agents for simplicity). Unlike
previous frameworks such as Agent Skill Induc-
tion (Wang et al., 2025b), which typically define
reusable skills only after task completion, we im-
plement a unified format for both task solving and
skill generation, following Nguyen et al. (2024).
In our approach, when the agent model interacts
with the environment through APIs, it generates
programmatic functions that can be saved as skills
and subsequently called to execute, rather than us-
ing multiple APIs directly. Given that in-context
prompting struggles to adapt open-source models
to this newly proposed skill library agent, super-
vised fine-tuning (SFT) is first applied before RL
using high-quality trajectories collected through
expert experience generated by advanced LLMs.
Based on the SFT model, we propose a novel RL
framework for skill library agents. Traditional RL
approaches typically consider rewards only for in-
dividual examples, limiting their scope to ongoing
task performance. For skill library agents, the focus
is on developing high-quality, reusable skills while
improving accurate skill usage from the library for
task optimization. To realize this, we extend Group
Relative Policy Optimization (GRPO) (Shao et al.,
2024) and propose Skill Augmented GRPO for
self-Evolution (SAGE), consisting of Sequential
Rollout and Skill-integrated Reward. Instead of
single-task trajectories, the agent is trained with
chains of similar tasks. We implement the Sequen-
tial Rollout process on the task chain, where skills
generated in the previous tasks are preserved and
made available for use in the following ones. Under
this framework, the final Skill-integrated Reward is
computed as the sum of two components: the veri-
fiable outcome-based reward and an extra reward
for high-quality skill generation and utilization.
To evaluate the effectiveness of SAGE for skill li-
brary agents, we conducted experiments on the Ap-
pWorld dataset (Trivedi et al., 2024), where agents
interact with their environment through API docu-
2

mentation lookup, API calls, and logical program-
ming constructs to solve complex practical tasks.
AppWorld utilizes the Scenario Goal Completion
(SGC) metric, which measures the success rate
of scenarios where all three similar tasks within
a scenario are successfully completed. This met-
ric effectively evaluates how well generated skills
transfer across similar tasks. After applying SAGE
to Qwen2.5-32B-Instruct, we observe significant
improvements compared to prompting-based ap-
proaches. Our method achieves more than 3x SGC
score while requiring less than half of generated
tokens. Analysis of skill utilization reveals that
agents trained with SAGE demonstrate more than
2x success rates when utilizing learned skills.
Furthermore, our approach achieves state-of-the-
art performance on both Test Normal and Test Chal-
lenge datasets compared to previous training meth-
ods which also applied RL but without a skill li-
brary. For example, our method achieves 72.0%
Task Goal Completion (TGC) and 60.7% SGC with
an average of 12.1 interaction steps and 1,475 gen-
erated tokens on the Test Normal set. This repre-
sents substantial improvement over baseline train-
ing with GRPO, which achieved 69.2% TGC and
51.8% SGC while requiring 16.4 average steps and
3,613 tokens. These improvements demonstrate
the effectiveness of our approach in enhancing both
task performance and efficiency through the skill
library agent.
2
Related Work
LLM-based Agent.
Recent advancements in
instruction-tuned LLMs have enabled them to fol-
low user instructions for interacting with exter-
nal environments as autonomous agents. Various
frameworks have been developed to enhance these
backbone LLMs’ capabilities in performing agentic
tasks. Yao et al. (2023) pioneered a "reason-then-
act" pipeline, guiding LLMs to generate interactive
actions for agents after a text reasoning process.
Erdogan et al. (2025) extended this approach by
incorporating an additional planning phase. Ad-
ditionally, Wang et al. (2024b) demonstrated that
generating executable Python code and then run
it within a code interpreter could significantly im-
prove agent performance. To further enhance agent
capabilities, researchers have applied both super-
vised fine-tuning (Schick et al., 2023; Chen et al.,
2023; Zeng et al., 2024; Zhang et al., 2024) and re-
inforcement learning (Song et al., 2024; Bai et al.,
2024; Wang et al., 2025a; Chen et al., 2025; Qi
et al., 2025; Zhou et al., 2025a) to develop more
effective and adaptive agent backbone LLMs.
Self-Improving Agent with Skill Library. While
RL algorithms have enabled agents to self-improve
through valuable experiences explored during roll-
outs (Zhou et al., 2025b; Putta et al., 2024; Qi et al.,
2025), enabling continuous self-improvement after
deployment, especially in new environments, re-
mains challenging. Wang et al. (2024a) pioneered
the use of a skill library to record successful be-
haviors for later retrieval in Minecraft exploration.
Subsequently, numerous studies have demonstrated
the effectiveness of such skill libraries across vari-
ous agentic tasks, including web exploration (Wang
et al., 2024c; Zheng et al., 2025; Wang et al.,
2025b), computer control (Zheng et al., 2024b; Wu
et al., 2024), and math problems (Nguyen et al.,
2024). These skills can take two forms: natural
language experience memories serving as a refer-
ence, or executable skills that can be directly im-
plemented in the environment. In this paper, we
focus on leveraging RL to enhance agents’ self-
improvement capabilities by teaching them to gen-
erate executable skills for the skill library during
test time.
3
Method
In this section, we first detail the skill library agent.
We then present our new RL framework specifi-
cally designed to integrate the skill library during
training process. An illustrative figure of our skill
library agent and Sequential Rollout with Skill-
integrated Reward design is shown in Figure 1.
3.1
Skill Library Agent
Before implementing RL, we first need to develop a
self-improving agent that integrates the skill library
for tool-using agents. This framework will serve
as the foundation for RL rollout process and task
evaluations.
Existing frameworks for skill library agents,
such as Agent Skill Induction (Wang et al., 2025b),
Agent Workflow Memory (Wang et al., 2024c),
and Voyager (Wang et al., 2024a), typically de-
fine reusable skills after completing entire tasks.
While this approach allows agents to observe com-
plete task trajectories before determining skill defi-
nitions, it limits the RL process in two ways: (1) In
long-horizon tasks, the additional skill generation
process further extends the context length, poten-
3

tially exceeding the model’s limitations; (2) The
separation between task execution and skill gen-
eration creates an inconsistency that may impact
learning effectiveness.
To address these limitations, we follow the Dy-
naSaur approach (Nguyen et al., 2024) and imple-
ment a unified format for both task solving and skill
generation. Specifically, when the agent model in-
teracts with the API environments, it first generates
a skill function and then calls it to process, instead
of using multiple APIs. An example of the format
difference is presented in Appendix A.
Formally, given a task set Q, our agent is de-
signed to perform online learning from start to
finish with a skill library M, which can be ini-
tialized with either an empty set or previously de-
fined skills. For each task q ∼Q, the agent first
retrieves a skill subset [a1, ..., ak] from the skill
library M and adds them into context before per-
forming the task. After that, the agent can auto-
matically perform the following actions to interact
with the skill library: (1) Skill Usage: Perform
skill ai ∈[a1, ..., ak] to process the task; (2) Skill
Generation: Define a skill function ˆa composed of
multiple actions aimed at solving the task and then
immediately call it to process the task; (3) Skill
Update: If the skill a, either from the skill library
or newly defined, fails to execute, update the skill
and recall it to process the task; (4) Skill Save: If
the skill can be executed without error, add the new
skill or update the existing skill in the skill library
M. Additionally, direct API calls are allowed for
cases where defining a function skill is unnecessary
for task processing.
3.2
SAGE for Skill Library Agent
We begin the description of our SAGE framework
by introducing the preliminary GRPO algorithms,
followed by our specifically-designed components
for skill library agents: Sequential Rollout and
Skill-integrated Reward.
3.2.1
Preliminary
In this paper, we build our SAGE based on GRPO
(Shao et al., 2024). For each query q, GRPO first
samples a group of outputs {o1, ..., oG} from the
old policy πθold and then optimizes the policy by
maximizing the following objective:
JGRPO(θ) =E[q∼Q,{oi}G
i=1∼πθold(O|q)]
1
G
G
X
i=1
1
|oi|
|oi|
X
t=1
{min[si,t ˆAi,t,
clip (si,t, 1 −ϵ, 1 + ϵ) ˆAi,t] −βDKL}
where si,t =
πθ(oi,t|q,oi,<t)
πθold(oi,t|q,oi,<t), ϵ is the clip ratio
and β is the ratio of KL penalty between pol-
icy model πθ and reference model πref.
ˆAi,t is
the advantage calculated based on the relative re-
wards of the outputs inside each group. Given
rewards r = {r1, r2, ..., rG} of the outputs un-
der the same group, the advantage is defined as
ˆAi,t = ri−mean(r)
std(r)
.
3.2.2
Sequential Rollout
A principled method to augment agents’ self-
improving ability with skill library is through end-
to-end RL. However, skill generation and usage
processes often need multiple tasks to reveal the
quality of skills. One potential solution to enabling
the end-to-end RL is that instead of one task, we
could give the agent a chain of tasks. Then a se-
quential rollout process is performed across these
tasks, enabling the agent to progressively accumu-
late skills in its library throughout the task chain.
Any skills learned in earlier tasks could be used in
subsequent tasks. In this way, rewards signal from
the successful usage of skills in later tasks can be
back-propagated to the skill generation in the pre-
vious tasks. To ensure that the generated skills can
be immediately applied to subsequent tasks, we
construct the sequential tasks with examples under
the same scenario, in which all tasks share similar
instructions.
While a longer task chain with multiple exam-
ples would bet

=== BACK MATTER (conclusion/limitations, last pages) ===
Figure 10: Task Execution Examples for Baseline GRPO
Figure 11: Task Execution Examples for Skill Library Agent
Figure 12: Task Execution Examples for SFT
20

Figure 13: Task Execution Examples for SAGE
21

